Adams, Douglas The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy
Have you ever experienced your home being destroyed … twice? In The
Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams, the exceedingly average
Arthur Dent wakes up to find bulldozers outside his house. The
foreman tells him that his home will be demolished to make way for a
bypass. Soon after, his friend, Ford, tells him that he is, in fact, an alien,
and that Earth will be destroyed in a matter of minutes to make way for
a hyperspace bypass. Arthur Dent must travel the galaxy with a manically
depressed robot, a girl he once met at a party, and the under qualified
President of the Universe...while wearing nothing but his pajamas
and his bathrobe. Nothing is ever quite as it seems on their intergalactic
adventure. Don’t lose track of your towel in this witty and tongue-incheek
comedy. Discover the wonders of the universe for less than 30
Alterian dollars a day. Most of all: Don’t panic.
Americanah follows the powerful story of characters Ifemelu and
Obinze through their romantic relationship and lives of racial oppression.
Through her highly honest and emotional characters, Chimamanda
Ngozi Adichie tackles the issue of racism in America and its effects
on African immigrants. Adichie allows her readers to dive deep into the
universal human experience of what it is like to be an outsider. I highly
recommend this book to anyone looking to expand their understanding
of race in America and explore the harsh realities of racial discrimination.
The Absolutely True Diary of a Part time Indian by Sherman Alexie centers
around a boy named Junior who is forced out of his comfort zone
from day one. Born onto an poor Indian reservation Junior is at a disadvantage
and must strive to better his situation. Junior is forced to a
new school outside of the reservation and forced to adapt. Throughout
the book Junior struggles with finding a place to fit in. Sherman Alexie
writes the book with enthusiasm and witty humor making it a must read.
The Absolutely True Diary of a Part Time Indian by Sherman Alexie depicts
the hardships for a Native American high schooler on the Spokane
reservation adjusting to the culture of the United States. Arnold Spirit
Jr. is a 14 year old high school freshman that goes through these experiences
firsthand. His destitute background and different culture make
him a prime target to be ostracized and excluded by his peers, while
he faces troubles at the reservation as well,”I’m 14 years old, and I’ve
been to 42 funerals,” Arnold says.”That’s really the biggest difference
between Indians and white people”. This novel is an excellent read for
someone who is interested in the brutal reality of life on the reservation
for many Native Americans, but can be very intense and emotionally
charged.
I Will Always Write Back is a moving, true story about pen pals, one from
America and the other from Zimbabwe. This story, told between both
the perspective of the girl and the boy, explores the meaning of true
friendship and shows readers how for some people, a little can go a
long way. Readers are able to experience the growth of both these
characters through the span of six years and how they are able to learn
from each other’s culture and background. This book compelled me to 
continue reading because because it was based off a true events. It was
so hard for me to put this book down because I wanted to continue to
read their letters and see how they impacted and influenced each other
for the better. If you have a cup of tea, some spare time and want to
immerse yourselves into the lives of two twelve year olds, I Will Always
Write Back is the perfect book for you.
This novel follows the story of Melinda Sordino, a teenage girl who is
beginning her freshman year at Merryweather High. She has a huge
secret that she’s holding in, and the novel really shows the struggles of
not being able to speak up about what is weighing her down. This book
really captivated my attention because it allowed me to understand
just how lonely traumatic events can make someone feel. I would recommend
this book to anyone who enjoys coming-of-age stories and
books that make you think. There isn’t actually a lot of action going on,
but it is very psychological. Overall, this was an extremely interesting
book that I think a lot of people would like.
Me and Earl and the Dying Girl was made into a movie in November of
2015. It was the first movie I’d ever actually cried over, so naturally, I
decided to read the book. The book is narrated by Greg Gaines, a high
schooler who has a fantastic outlook on dealing with the complexity of
having a social life, which is to remove himself entirely from it. He has
one friend, Earl, and together they make terrible movies. Greg and Earl
are coasting through high school with ease, until Greg’s mom forces
him to meet Rachel, who has cancer. So Greg and Earl embark on a
journey to make the best movie they’ve ever made, one that will help
Rachel deal with the trauma that is cancer treatment. Me and Earl and
the Dying Girl is a rollercoaster of emotions and plot twists, and I would
highly recommend it to anyone who likes books that are enraging,
tear-jerking, and utterly hilarious.
This is an autobiography of Anna Kendrick, most famous for starring
in the Pitch Perfect movie series. The book starts out as a little girl on
Broadway and retells how she got famous and her path along the way.
Anna struggled as she began creating a name for herself and describes
some of the setbacks of being an actress in Los Angeles. The book is
very enjoyable because she talks about her time filming some of her
popular movies. Filled with humor and laughter, this is a funny and very 
entertaining book, I felt very connected with Anna while reading this
and I think many people will also. Anna makes herself vulnerable in this
book, which makes her easier to connect with. I don’t think I didn’t laugh
at least once per page. Anna has a great sense of humor and is able to
convey it through her words.
The Elephant Whisperer is a very engaging and entertaining story about
Lawrence Anthony and his experiences with Elephants on an African
game reserve. Anthony adopts a number of elephants, and throughout
the book, he tells about all of his experiences with these elephants and
how he raises them. When he first adopted them, they were rogue and
wild, and were thought to be uncontrollable. But over time, Anthony
describes how these elephants accepted him as apart of their family
just as he accepted them as apart of his. This story expresses many life
lesson such as loyalty and the freedom of life. I would certainly recommend
this book to anyone looking for a book with a lot of meaning and
insight as to what it is like living with some of the largest animals in the
world.
The book 13 Reasons Why, is the story about teenage boy Clay Jensen
and his struggles with the untimely death of his friend Hannah Baker.
The cause of death? Suicide. When tapes from Hannah Baker arrive on
Clay’s doorstep, the journey to discover why Hannah killed herself begins.
This novel is a conversation starter to some of life’s most difficult
topics to talk about. Suicide, bullying at school, the abuse of alcohol
and also how bad some kids lives are at their homes. Hopefully conversations
about the book focus on those issues and also how to fix
and prevent them. I would recommend this book for people who enjoy
mystery, drama and sadness. The issues children and teens face growing
up in this day and age is portrayed very realistically in this book.
This is a great one for all dystopia fans out there! The Handmaid’s Tale
is a true classic example of speculative fiction, and a quick read that
will keep you guessing until the end. The setting is familiar and easy
to comprehend and visualize. It weaves together a lot of recollections
of the tragic experiences of the main character, so it requires careful
reading to fully be enjoyed. This book will challenge your ideas of government
intervention with gender roles in society, as well as freedom,
basic human rights, and religion. Margaret Atwood’s work has been 
adapted to an Emmy award winning television show featured on Hulu!
The Handmaid’s Tale is by far one of the best dystopian books I have
read in a long time. The eerie feeling of how real the book is makes you
want to read the book cover to cover in one sitting. The Handmaid’s
Tale places women into categories: the wives, the handmaids, and the
Marthas. The handmaids are the women who are fruitful and are expected
to birth children for the husband and wife that they serve under.
The handmaids are named after the man in their house. For example,
the main character’s name is Offred. I highly recommend this book to
any person who loves dystopian literature! Enjoy :)
The Handmaid’s Tale is a dystopian novel written by author Margaret
Atwood that focuses on female rights and misogyny in society. From
the first page, Atwood is effectively able to capture the reader’s mind
through her use of vivid imagery and the striking parallels of the society
we live in today. The plot follows the struggles of handmaid Offred in
a dystopian United States society named Gilead. In this alternate universe,
women are stripped of all human rights and are subjected to
complete male dominance. The novel examines the effects of alt right
political views, extreme christianity and the effects extreme misogyny
can have on a society. This novel is a must read for every dystopian literature
reader and for anyone looking for a nail biting plot.
Do you love to watch Rom Coms with a strong female lead? Believe it
or not Pride and Prejudice is the 1800 century Rom Com that will have
you coming back for more. The main character is Elizabeth Bennet is a
stubborn women who could cares less about the society she must live
in. Yet the one of the most powerful men in the country falls in love with
her. It is the gateway drug into Emily Brontë and Jane Austen.
4321 is an intricate, outstandingly written novel revolving around the life
of one boy, Archie Ferguson. Although Archie is certainly an exceptional
boy, the book revolves around relatively normal themes of family,
romance, sports, politics and beyond. However, what makes this book
so expansively interesting is the fact that from baby boyhood up until
adult life, Auster paints four different pictures of Ferguson’s journey. 
In some, the changes are subtle: Archie’s mother becomes a stay-at
home mother instead a photographer or his father’s American Dreamstyle
business takes root in a different retail area. However, throughout
the intertwining storylines woven so seamlessly together, serious and
life-altering changes also begin to take place. Archie is denied opportunities
and simultaneously granted them in another story, experiences
love, hardship, loss, and beyond-- and does it four times over. I would
strongly recommend this book for anyone who is over the age of 13, as
it does contain sexual content, but does not fixate on it. However, I can
say from personal experience that this book is truly magical and masterfully
created, and a must- read for any self- described bookworm,
sucker for heartwarming stories, or really anyone with an aptitude for a
good read!
The novel Red Queen by Victoria Aveyard, touches on the topics of coming
of age, excess power, and adventure. In a world separated by blood
type, Mare Barrow finds herself able to defy odds. The red-blooded
represent the poor working class, while the silver-blooded are the elitists
with supernatural powers. Mare is a defiant seventeen year old girl
and a master of pickpocketing, who steals to survive. Stuck in the red
class, Mare struggles to get by until she finds herself working in a silver
palace. While in the palace she discovers although she is red, she too
holds the supernatural powers that a silver does. The silvers, fearful this
could dismantle the balance of power, determine Mare the long lost
silver princess. Shortly after Mare becomes engaged to the prince, but
she has an agenda of her own which entails destroying the silver rule.
This novel is thought provoking and keeps the reader interested from
start to finish.
Every year around March Sports Illustrated puts out a new edition of
their “March Madness” magazine. Each year they go over who they think
is going to win, who they think could upset, and very general things
about the March Madness basketball tournaments. If you are a college
basketball fan, or even someone who just needs to pick their brackets,
read this Sports Illustrated. It will give you all the information you need
in order to have a good bracket or not sound like an idiot around your
friends. The only thing I would have to say was bad about the this year’s
edition was that they predicted Virginia winning, which was ironic because
they lost first round and were the first ever one seed to lose to a
sixteen seed!
If you love books filled with adventure, suspense, and a little bit of romance
then this is definitely a book for you. The Six of Crows takes place
in a world where a select few people, known a grisha have certain extraordinary
powers, yet because they are so rare, many of these people
have been forced into slavery. While their powers are usually fairly limited,
the recent development of a drug which gives grisha unimaginable
power (but then usually kills them soon after) was recently created and
this has led nearly all major world governments to want to attain this
drug for themselves. In order to prevent the world from falling into war
and chaos, an unexpected group of skilled thieves is given the job of
capturing the creator of this drug from the most secure and dangerous
prison in the entire world. Will they succeed and receive their promised
reward from their employers, or will they die trying? Read this incredible
book and find out for yourself.
Lexicon is a science fiction book set in the modern day. A talented
con-artist gets recruited by a secretive school and trained how use
words to manipulate people. She learns how to “persuade” people to
kill, steal things and even destroy their own lives. Barry paints a truly
captivating story of suspense, science, and romance bundled in by just
enough facts to make the story almost believable.
A Long Way Gone: Memoirs of a Boy Soldier by Ishmael Beah encaptures
the emotions and struggles of a young boy in war-torn Sierra Leone. In
the midst of the civil war, Ishmael flees the violence, only to become a
part of it himself. When captured by the rebel force, the Revolutionary
United Front, Ishmael is forced to do the unthinkable. After enduring
numerous battles and massacres, Ishmael lives to tell his story. This
book is a true and captivating tale. The reader learns about the real Sierra
Leone civil war, while also getting an inside look on the fighters and
how they feel after they escape the havoc. I would highly recommend
A Long Way Gone for anyone who is looking to get captured by a true
and captivating story.
The Thing About Jellyfish by Ali Benjamin is a wonderful book full of curiosity.
In the book the main character is a young girl named Suzy. At the
beginning of the novel her best friend dies from a tragic drowning accident.
Before the accident Suzy and her friend had a falling out, leav-
ing Suzy devastated. When Suzy got the news about her best friends
death she won’t accept it. She knew her friend was a great swimmer
and doesn’t believe that she could drown. She looks for ways to blame
something for her death. She creates a theory that her friend died from
a jellyfish sting. Throughout the book she looks for ways to prove her
theory right and accept the reality of her friends death.
Biomimicry, by Janine Benyus, is a book that covers both nature and the
environment and intelligent design. Benyus seeks to answer the question
of why nature works and how natural design can inform humans
in their own design processes. Whether it’s designing climate control
systems modeled after temperature management systems employed
in termite mounds, shaping a bullet train based off of the beak of a
kingfisher, or manufacturing a better needle by taking inspiration from a
mosquito, Benyus demonstrates that there is much to learn from nature.
Biomimicry is a perfect book for anyone interested in biology and biotechnology,
but also an amazing read for those who are passionate
about design of any sort, whether it be industrial design, architecture,
or anything else. Published in 1997 Biomimicry is, unfortunately, a good
example of how poorly technological literature ages, but many of the
teachings that Biomimicry preaches are more pertinent today than ever.
Despite its age, this book remains informative and engaging.
The Boy in the Striped Pajamas by John Boyne is a tragic World War II
story in which eight-year-old Bruno and his family move from Berlin to
a concentration camp where his father has just become a commander.
At the camp, Bruno becomes bored and curious and wanders from his
home to the camp. Bruno then meets Shmuel, a Jewish boy about his
age. Although the fence separates them, the two boys still find a way to
play. The way the book is written will keep you reading all day.
Fahrenheit 451 is a quick read about a not-so distant dystopian future.
In this future, books are outlawed by a government which fears an independently-thinking
public, and they use the “firemen” to do their biddings.
As opposed to our modern conception of a fireman, the “firemen”
in this story are the ones sent to seek out and burn all hidden books.
This story follows one such fireman named Montag. His wife, like much
of the population, has been sucked into the interactive world of modern
television. However, be it his involvement with them through his daily 
work, or his interaction with a young girl named Clarisse, Montag begins
to explore the mysteries that lie within the covers of the very things
he has been sent to destroy. Fahrenheit 451 explores the importance
of free-thinking and how devastating a future such as this could be.
The book shares many parallels with The Book Thief, by Markus Zusak.
Aside from the obvious similarity of book burnings, both books discuss
the power of words and the ability to possess an open mind. Fahrenheit
451 is a great book for anyone looking for a quick, yet thought provoking
read.
Ray Bradbury’s masterful book, Fahrenheit 451, truly serves as an epic
work of dystopian fiction. The novel follows its protagonist, Guy Montag,
as he works as a fireman, one who burns books for the government.
Over the course of the novel, Guy’s eyes slowly open to the injustices
around him, as he sees not only books get burned, but people as well.
Bradbury’s novel acts as a critique of American society as mindless TV
begins to grow in popularity and books lose their value to the average
citizen. The novel warns of an apathy which may very well lead to the
end of democracy in America. Bradbury’s novel is perfect for those who
appreciate dystopian fiction. I absolutely recommend it.
Fahrenheit 451 is a book that takes place in a dystopian future where
books are forbidden. You follow a man named guy montag who is a
worker who finds and burns books. This book enlightened me on the
power of books and how in modern times we could stray from the magnificence
of books. The main character struggles with his mind throughout
the book as he becomes curious with books. The story is riveting
and will make you feel like you need to read a good old book while you
are already reading. Each page turn makes you more and more invested
in this future world, making you crave every detail. Must read.
For Charlotte Bronte’s time, this book is futuristic, due to the book’s
massive theme of feminism. Jane Eyre is the brilliant story of Jane Eyre,
a young orphan, and the main events of her life. The novel is set in England’s
strict rules of social hierarchy. People were either part of the
elite or working class. Jane, however, is indeterminate. She seems to be
in a position that is between the two social classes, and interacts with
various people from servants, to noble individuals. As shown with her
relationships with people of a higher status, Jane is able to adapt and 
resist the class expectations that are placed upon her.
Red Notice by Bill Browder is a true story about a young American man
who moves to Russia to start an Investment fund. This book is for those
of us who like action, scandal, and Russia. In his story Bill deals with the
Russian’ presidents, Yeltsin and Vladimir Putin’, and the Oligarchs. When
Bill finds out that 270,000,000 dollars have been stolen from his fund,
there in only one place to look. Putin. What starts out as a money making
venture changes into a quest to expose the Russian government as
well as their deep seeded corruption. What will happen to Bill and his
relentless lawyer Sergei Magnitsky? Enjoy the heavy amounts of corruption,
greed, and economic prowess in this truly great Novel.
The Da Vinci Code is a incredible adventure novel, examining secret
societies throughout history and the origin of Christianity itself. It follows
Robert Langdon, a Harvard professor of symbology, in his search
to solve the murder of the curator at the Louvre. I enjoyed how realistic
and intelligent this book felt. It uses a stunning amount of real world
accuracy, providing non-fictionalized depictions of art and architecture.
At times, it was difficult to tell what parts of the book were fiction and
what was real. It drew important conclusions about our world today,
while also presenting an interesting and engrossing plot, which made
this book difficult to put down. If you want to read an absolute page
turner, and are interested in religious history, this book is for you.
The Boys in the Boat is about the nine US Olympic rowers during the
1936 Olympic Games held in Germany. These games were special
because the Nazis were rising to power. America, on the other hand,
was suffering from the Great Depression. The story follows Joe Rantz
around, one of the nine rowers that was left on the sidewalk by his parents
to live and take care of himself. It tells of the hardships and joys
that he finds through his wife, his high-school sweetheart, Joyce Simdars.
He has to find work during a very low-paid time, and even find
time to make money for college. This book progresses quickly to the
Olympic races, where the team had to overcome everything to obtain
the gold, including getting set in the lane with the strongest current
This non-fiction book is a good, relaxing read that will keep you hooked
throughout.
Power of One, by Bryce Courtenay, is about a young boy that endures
humiliation and bullying at his school because of his differences. The
novel occurs when Hitler cast his cruel shadow across the world with
the seeds of discrimination taking place in South Africa, where the setting
takes place. The Power of One is a great read because of the boy’s
innocent outlook on his hardships. During such a dark time for society
and the young boy, his perspective remains positive. I strongly recommend
reading this novel.
A Short History of Nearly Everything is a book about the history of our
universe and the sciences that attempt to explain it. It is without a doubt
the most engaging nonfiction book I’ve ever read, providing information
with a sense of awe and wonder, and keeping the tone light with anecdotes
about the scientists who pioneered the fields that explore our
planet and the universe beyond. It manages to be incredibly informative
while reading with the engagement and ease of a comedy novel. It
acknowledges that the universe is incredibly complex and may never
be fully understood or explained, and embraces that fact as something
that makes life worth experiencing and exploring. I fully recommend
this book to anyone who loves science, history, or lays awake at night
dreaming of what lies beyond the stars.
The Aeronaut’s Windlass is a fantastic novel although for slightly more
mature audiences. It takes the reader to another world. The book is a
fantasy steampunk novel set in a far future where the surface of the
earth is uninhabitable, so people live on spires high in the sky. The novel
is packed with action, adventure, and plenty of magic. From powerful
mages to epic flying pirate ship battles, any fantasy or steampunk lover
will enjoy this book. The book follows a conflict between two spires with
the protagonists fighting for Spire Albion against spire Aurora. However,
the motivations of the aggressor spire Aurora have a dark truth. The
novel weaves together the perspectives of multiple characters including
a dishonorably discharged general, a warrior belonging to a clan
of intelligent cats, and a mage apprentice. I feel like most people will
enjoy this great read.
Sea of Rust is an impactful novel that challenges one’s conception of
morality. Recounting the “life” of Brittle, sea of rust goes into the de-
tails surrounding the technological uprising that led to the end of the
world as we knew it. Following Brittle’s cold and inhumane existence,
this novel explores the meaning of morality and ethics in a world that
demands extreme brutality. Not only does the book make statements
surrounding the meaning of humanity, and what truly constitutes an
individual. This novel is a fast paced adventure which both entertains
and asks important questions of the reader.
The Selection by Kiera Cass takes the reality television show, The Bachelor,
to a whole new level. It introduces 35 girls to the opportunity to
marry a beloved prince and to become the princess of their kingdom.
Following the main character, America, through her journey in the competition
and her interactions with the Prince Maxon, a beautiful image of
the palace and life as a royal is depicted. This contrast from the original
description of America’s life as someone in the lower class is staggering.
Furthering the plot of the story is America’s forbidden romance with
her on-again-off-again boyfriend, Aspen, a guard in the palace while
she is in the competition. The story keeps you guessing about which
relationship will make it and which won’t. As the first book in a series of
five, this book is only the beginning of a long and complicated romance.
A must read for anyone who loves the bachelor or any other dystopian
romance novel.
This is Really Happening is a collection of short essays written by a Senior
Writer at Buzzfeed. She reveals everything, from when she got
hired at Buzzfeed to her adventures in Malta. These stories are perfect
for reading one at a time or all at once. Some of her stories make you
laugh, other make you shed a tear. Either way, Chack’s book takes you
on an emotional rollercoaster that you will want to ride again and again.
The Perks of Being a Wallflower by Stephen Chbosky is about a young
boy named Charlie who is beginning his freshman year of high school.
The book demonstrates his struggles through his first year as he write
about them to an unknown person. He talks about family, making
friends, and his struggles in life. Each letter he writes makes you feel
like he is writing to you personally, and you are along the ride experiencing
all of the things he does. This story is a fast read that ends in an
unexpected way. Although some of the topics in the book are mature,
it is overall a great story. 
The Girl in the Green Sweater is the true story of how young Krystyna
Chiger, the narrator and the author, as well asher family, survive the Holocaust.
After growing up in a wealthy middle-class family in a beautiful
apartment, the Chigers and other Jews are forced into cramped ghettos,
and they are isolated from society when the Nazis invade Poland
in 1939. After suffering in the ghetto, the Chigers eventually move into
the sewers beneath the city to escape deportation to the Nazi concentration
camps. In this novel, Krystyna Chiger describes the unimaginable
hardships of her family’s struggle to survive beneath the streets
of Poland as they face discovery, starvation, and even death itself. This
novel opened my eyes to the horrors Jewish people faced throughout
the Holocaust, not only in the Nazi concentration camps, but also
in hiding. As a heart-wrenching story of survival, The Girl in the Green
Sweater captured my attention, and transported me back in time as I
experienced life in the sewers through the eyes of Krystyna Chiger, a
Holocaust survivor.
 Human Decision
Christian and Griffith’s interdisciplinary work explores the algorithmic
foundation beneath everyday human decisions. It answers questions
like: when do you stop looking for an apartment in a competitive housing
market? How do you schedule a series of tasks to be completed
as efficiently and as easily as possible? How do you sort your sock
drawer by comparing the fewest number of socks? In what situations
should we leave decisions entirely to chance? This thought-provoking
read provides an extraordinarily accessible and human insight into the
algorithms that make computers as powerful and useful as they are
today, and a knowledge of computer science isn’t necessary to apply
its teachings to everyday life. Algorithms to Live By is an intriguing and
highly relevant read.
If you are looking through a book where you want to place yourself in
a complex crime scene, this is the one for you. Out of all the mystery
novels that I have read, And Then There Were None falls as one of my
favorites. Through the twists and turns through the minds of different
characters, this book drops hints and tiny details that help you decipher
“whodunnit.” Stuck on a small island off the coast of Devon, nine
everyday individuals all mysteriously meet as directed by an invite. All 
the characters become fairly familiar with a children’s poem called “Ten
Little Soldiers.” As the days go on, it is their job to work together in order
to stay alive. This book was so intriguing to read because it was so exciting
to piece together all the events and try looking through the eyes
of a detective. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes plot
twists and confusion.
I read this book for the first time in 5th grade and was confused by it.
However, when I read it again last year the mystery of the story intrigued
me rather than confusing me. And Then There Were None is a mystery
that keeps readers turning page after page. The book is set on an Island
that is completely isolated from the rest of the world with 10 characters
that are all contacted for various reasons to come to the island. While
on the island the mystery unfolds and the characters morals are tested.
This book will keep you guessing and will not let you trust anyone. It is
a must read.
Murder on the Orient Express is an intense murder mystery that will keep
you guessing. The book follows Hercule Poirot, a Belgian detective, and
his trip through Europe by train. In the middle of the night a passenger is
murdered, prematurely ending Poirot’s vacation. He immediately gets
down to sleuthing and speedily uncovers clues through his investigation.
Every additional clue keeps you turning the page. As soon as you
think you’ve figured out whodunit, the book will throw you a curveball
and change your opinion. I would highly recommend this book if you
are looking for a real page turner.
Murder On the Orient Express is a novel that will keep you on your toes
and thinking outside of the pages. The wondrous and mysterious Hercule
Poirot, abordes the seemingly normal Orient Express, with a couple
other passengers. When the train gets stopped by a blizzard, someone
is murdered. Who was murdered? How was he murdered? Who did
it? Follow M. Poirot’s train of thought as he examines every person on
board and gets to know their deepest and darkest secrets. This exciting
novel lets the reader be the detective and try to solve the case just as
a real detective would. Will you be successful and find the murderer, or
will you let the murderer strike again?
A word of warning with The Girls, it is a very risqué book that is only
intended for a fairly mature audience. The story deals with a fictional
Manson style cult and one girl’s slow decline into the world of the occult.
Cline has an incredible ability to make the story and its characters
come alive. All of the motivations and emotions of certain characters,
no matter how abhorrent or extreme, seem to be justified. If you want a
unique reading experience, this book is for you.
Ernest Cline’s Ready Player One is a science fiction novel and new Steven
Spielberg blockbuster film. In the Novel, it tells the story of Wade
Watts, an 18-year-old and 80s pop-culture obsessed teen in 2045. The
Book starts in Oklahoma City where Wade lives with his aunt in  “the
stacks” a collection of once mobile trailer homes now stacked on top of
each other in 20 story high complexes. Amongst the drug-filled, poverty-stricken,
global warming- affected dystopia Wade lives in he has
one escape: the OASIS. The OASIS is a virtual reality world that Wade
can escape the grim reality of the real world. In the OASIS Wade attends
school, hangs out with friends and most importantly hunts for the
game creator’s famously hidden egg. The story follows his adventures
while trying to solve the puzzles that could lead him to all of the fame,
fortune, and power he could imagine. If he can find all the clues and
solve the puzzle he has a way out of the reality he desperately wants to
escape, but at what cost?
It’s the books filled with competition and twists and turns on a seemingly
straight path that gets me on my knees begging the reading gods
to give me more. Ready Player One by Ernest Cline completely satisfied
this previously unquenched thirst in a way no other book ever has. As
hard as it was to follow a book filled with subtle 80s trivia music, arcade
games, and movies (no I was not born in the 80s), the mere idea of a
virtual contest in a virtual world had me fascinated from the beginning.
The book follows Wade Watts, a teenage boy from the ‘stacks’ (slums)
of Oklahoma, in his everlasting quest to find James Halliday’s video
game easter egg. Unlike most video games which are played on simple
technology, such as the modern TV, in 2045, games are played on the
OASIS, a full body immersive simulation, much like virtual reality. On his
journey, Wade faces challenges one could only dream, and despise,
of facing. He must choose between guaranteed money from a corrupt
organization and keeping his morality. He fights for a level playing field
in a time when the world is as binary as possible, and like most teenage 
boys he must choose between love and himself. I would highly recommend
this book to anyone willing to become, like the OASIS, immersed
in another world.
Ready Player One is a dystopian novel set in a future where the people
have given up on the real world and turned to virtual reality instead.
When the creator of the most popular game dies, he leaves behind a
hunt, the winner of which will inherit his company. The world instantly
jumps into competition to complete the quest. Filled with 80’s pop culture
references and characters who feel like they could be real people,
it’s a fun read that anyone can enjoy.
Ready Player One is an homage to the world of geeks, and one of my
favorite books of all time. It’s 2041, and the real world had been long
destroyed by people. Now, the entirety of civilization functions within
a global virtual reality system called the OASIS. It contains businesses
and schools, is completely free to join, and is the center of life for nearly
every person on earth. After the creator of the OASIS dies, however,
he leaves the OASIS with a treasure hunt for the key to inherit his total
wealth and control over the OASIS. Our main character and protagonist,
Wade, becomes one of the millions of people racing towards a chance
not to control the OASIS, but to save it. Full of random 1980s references
and witty humor, this book is perfect for any geek looking for an entertaining
book to read.
Ready Player One is a very good book. While it is a work of fiction, the
book comes alive as you turn the pages, constantly enthralling the
reader with new twists and turns. The book takes place inside of a computer
program that disregards the laws of physics, meaning that what
happens in the story is truly fantastic and amazing. As the characters
search for the billions of dollars left behind by the creator of the program
after his death, wars and alliances are formed, murders take place,
and lives are changed forever. Just like the characters of the book, as
their avatars are killed and they must return to the real world, you will
be very disappointed to put down the book when it comes to an end.
Even for someone who has little interest in video games, this book was
impossible to put down until I reached the end.
Following your personal legend is harder than one imagines. The universe
tests everyone and only the strong will follow through. In The
Alchemist The main character Santiago is a lowly sheep herder from
Andalusia, a part of Southern Spain, who walks the country, always
seeking greener grass. This novel tells the story of how Santiago follows
his dream to find his personal legend; learning of love, hatred, and
the language of the world. On his journey to find his personal legend
Santiago experiences a different world filled with thieves, tribal wars,
and kings on his way to Egypt. The story of Santiago will give you insight
into life and how you decide whether to follow or abandoned your personal
legend and dream.
The Alchemist is an amazing book about following your own path and
appreciating the journey as well. The book follows a shepherd boy
named Santiago who has a recurring dream about finding treasure at
the foot of the pyramids. Santiago sets off on a journey filled with setbacks,
but he manages to learn new things about himself as he progresses.
While I was reading, I felt that the book started a little slow,
but as I continued to read, I could not put it down! As you get farther
into the book, you really get to know the character and I felt that I could
sympathize with him. A primary theme I saw in this book was the pursuit
of your own personal legend. The book effortlessly shows readers that
if you find your calling, you should not let fear hold you back.
The Boys of Winter provides an incredible insight into the lives of the
20 young men from the 1980 U.S. men’s hockey team. Many may know
the story of the United States defeating the hated Soviet Union from
the movie Miracle on Ice. As a hockey player, I have watched this repeatedly
and was always curious about the lives of the players beyond
this historic event. The Boys of Winter tells the story of each player, how
players such as Neal Broten reached the Olympic team from a prairie
town in Minnesota, as well as the careers of these iconic players after
the games. Wayne Coffey’s novel is a must read for any hockey fan, and
any sports fan, as it dives into the untold stories of a coach, a dream,
and the 1980 U.S. Olympic Hockey Team.
Ghost Fleet is a book that describes what the next World War would
look like. I know it’s a book that certain people have to be interested 
in, but if anyone enjoys war books I think they’d really like this book. I
found this book really interesting because it includes all the strategy
that would go into the next World War. It was really cool to me to see
how the next World War would unfold and how the US would respond. I
found the book to not be biased either, as it included different perspectives
from other countries. It also includes the strategies that China and
Russia would use against the U.S., which was kind of scary, but really
interesting.
The Hunger Games is a dystopian novel that is filled with tons of action.
The novel incorporates a little bit of everything such as romance, drama,
and adventure. A girl named Katniss Everdeen is chosen to fend for
her life against other boys and girls in the annual hunger games. Every
citizen must watch as the youth fight to the death until only one remains.
Follow Katniss on her journey as is it is filled with heart stopping
moments and action. If you are looking for a book that tells of a dystopian
future, I would highly recommend this book. This book is targeted
for a slightly more mature audience; however, anyone can read it.
The Face on the Milk Carton is a short, mystery novel about a girl name
Janie who finds a picture of her from when she was little on the back of
a milk carton. The letters on the milk carton read “Missing Child”. Janie
tries to find the truth behind her past while hiding her secrets from her
loving and supportive parents, who she is convinced did not kidnap
her. Janie only tells her neighbor, Reeve, what she saw on the back of
the milk carton. Together, they discover more information leading Janie
to the truth behind who she really is. This book was so intriguing that I
could not put it down.
Leviathan Wakes imagines a world where humans have expanded beyond
Mars. Mars and Earth teeter on the brink of all out warfare over
the future of the solar system. The novel explores fictional interplanetary
politics and warfare from a fast paced and exciting perspective. By
telling the story simultaneously from multiple perspectives across the
planets, the only breaks in the action don’t detract from the intensity.
This novel is great for anyone looking for a Game of Thrones style read.
A Case of Need is a thriller and wonderful mystery. Dr. John Berry, a pathologist
with an intellectual mind, poses multiple questions throughout
the novel that keeps the reader constantly thinking. When a young
girl dies from a failed abortion, people begin to point fingers at the person
who gave her this illegal (at the time) operation. The blame initially
falls upon John Berry’s friend: Arthur Lee. Throughout the book, however,
the truth is discovered, and there are more secrets behind the girl
whose life was taken than the pathologist initially thought. This book is
for readers who love a good mystery and puzzle. Even with complicated
doctor terminologies, the book is easy to follow and is a page turner.
I recommend this book to anyone who strives to solve and unpack
mysteries.
Justin Cronin’s The Passage sucks readers into a dark, but at the same
time, colorful universe. While presenting itself as an action-packed sci-fi
thriller containing monsters and drug-induced enemies, the novel also
conveys a very peculiar upbringing of individual success. The author
begins his adventure by introducing a character named Amy Harper, an
orphan whose mother left her to a couple of strict nuns and places her
in constant pain within an  exposed environment; however, as the novel
continues, readers start to see a drastic transformation of this young,
poor, and helpless orphaned child. Even in the midst of world annihilation
and government-imposed speculations, Amy Harper grows into
a powerful revolution leader. At first I underestimated the power of this
book; I looked at it as a type of movie, the stereotypical space movie
that forces you to fall asleep within minutes. This book walks directly
away from that plain, old, generic science fiction. Rather, The Passage
offers readers, such as myself, a chance to stand side by side directly
with the characters. Through the emotional struggles that appear in this
nuke-stricken world, readers start to see that every scene, dialogue,
and ending concur with the same struggles of our everyday lives. With
the combination of real human emotion and constant action, this book
is certainly going to provide one with the confidence to also make some
change in our world. This book is highly recommended!
On the Origin of Species is a book well worth reading if you are interested
in any field of  science. This book goes over the adventure of Charles
Darwin on his research trip in the Galapagos. It was fascinating to be
able to see the research that Darwin did and to see the differences in
each of the species of finches as he went from island to island. Darwin 
was able to justify his claims regarding how and why evolution takes
place by giving clear and concise proof based off of the differences
found in the finches on each of the islands he studied. It was truly an
amazing view on how species over time are able, based on the necessities
for survival, to evolve to fit into their specific environments and
become the best fit for their environment. Darwin’s ability to clearly
state the finches adaptations specific to each island made this book
well worth my time.
The novel The Maze Runner is a thrilling read with a great plot. The book
is set inside of a Maze. The main character Thomas wakes up one day in
this Maze which the other kids around his same age call the Glade. They
all have similar stories about how they got there, but no one knows how
to get out. The few brave enough to explore the extremities of the maze
are called the runners. They go into the maze not knowing what to expect
but make sure to keep record of the maze to hopefully one day
solve the puzzle. Thomas must face hardships between the people he
loves, monsters in the maze, and betrayal of his friends in order to make
it out of the maze alive.
The Maze Runner by James Dashner is a thrilling and suspenseful read.
The book begins with the main character, Thomas, arriving in the mysterious
glade with no memory except his own name. He wakes up
surrounded by other boys whose memories are also gone. Thomas
is extremely curious and has a countless number of questions for the
leader, Alby. Alby has been in the glade for two years and created an
environment where the boys can live safely. However, the boys aren’t
really safe at all. In fact, they are surrounded by a maze. In this maze lies
deadly creatures who aren’t afraid to kill. Thomas becomes so interested
in the maze that he runs into it, hoping to find a way out. This book
was the best book that I have ever read, and thankfully, it’s the first book
in a trilogy. The amount of times this book gave me chills is countless.
It will definitely make you not want to put the book down. The ending
of The Maze Runner will surprise you, but throughout your journey of
reading this book, always expect the unexpected.
The Maze Runner is an intense, suspenseful book. It was one of the first
books that I have read that I was almost glued to. At the beginning of
the book, the main character, Thomas, wakes up in a steel cage eleva-
tor, that had been moving upwards for the past thirty minutes. He had
no knowledge of how he had gotten there, or any memory from his life.
The only thing that he was certain of was his name. At this point I was
already extremely excited to see what the rest of the book would entail.
The awesome part about The Maze Runner was that this same level of
suspense lasts throughout the entire book. When I started reading it, I
couldn’t stop. I don’t consider myself to be a big reader as I would rather
be playing sports or doing something outside. With this book, I sat
down for an entire day reading. I would highly recommend this book to
anyone who likes futuristic reading or a plot that will keep you on the
edge on your chair.
Challenge your preconceived ideas of existence by exploring the Evil
Demon Thought Experiment as well as many other exotic theories. Attempt
to understand what true relaxation implies with a philosophers
outlook on true peace. This book will push you to think outside the
bounds of life and human thought. If you like a challenge this book is
for you.
All the Light We Cannot See is a really wonderful book about crossing
paths during World War II. It traces the stories of a French girl and a German
boy whose lives eventually intertwine. The characters will make
you feel deeply connected to the novel, and the story is beautiful although
sad. It was one of those books where I wouldn’t be able to put
it down for hours at a time. I highly recommend it if you want a book to
feel completely lost in.
Nicole and Livia Cutty are sisters who live in Emerson Bay, North Carolina.
One night, Nicole is abducted from a party on the beach, along
with another girl named Megan McDonald. Megan is found running for
her life a few weeks later along the highway after she escapes from a
bunker in the woods. She is rescued and she instantly becomes a national
hero, showered with love and publicity. She is the success story
that everyone wants to hear, and after hearing so much about Megan,
Nicole is soon forgotten by everyone except for her sister. Livia never
gave up on searching for her sister, and with the help of unexpected
people, she is able to uncover shocking things which were unforeseen
by Livia or the reader. This mystery is full of surprising twists and turns
and I couldn’t put it down. While it has bits of humor in it, this book 
mainly has a thrilling and intense plot.
Room is a thrilling story about a boy and his mother who have been
trapped in a room for years. As the reader, I became attached to the
characters and cared so much about what happened to the two in the
end. As you continue reading, there are triumphs for the two characters,
but the story doesn’t end there. The ups and downs in the story make
this such an interesting and easy read. The descriptions in the book are
so detailed, and I found myself not being able to put the book down.
Room is the perfect book for anyone looking for a dark psychological
thriller.
In the novel Out of my Mind by Sharon Draper, eleven year old Melody
has a photographic memory and excels inside the 5th grade classroom,
as the smartest kid. The smartest kid with one disability, cerebral palsy.
Melody isn’t able to walk, talk, or even write all of her thoughts remain
in her mind as if she is trapped by them. Often those who are different
stand out especially within young children, Melody is constantly bullied
throughout the novel. Everything changes when Melody is finally
set free from her world, yet her classmates are not ready to hear her
voice. However, she is surrounded by teachers, friends and family who
encourage her to preserve and  become her best self. Sharon Draper
takes you on a thrilling adventure where you develop more empathy
and respect for those who overcome and have a disabilities.
The Game by Ken Dryden is an amazing read for any sports fan. The
book was released in 1983, only a few years following Dryden’s legendary
hockey goalie career. The book has proved to be timeless through
the last 35 years for hockey fans along with all sports fans. It goes
through Ken Dryden’s last year as a Montreal Canadian in the National
Hockey League. The team struggles to find its identity at the beginning
of the season and it is a great story about the journey that is an NHL
season. The Game by Ken Dryden is an amazing must read story about
a legendary sports figure and his last season. It is a story of triumph and
determination and is an amazing book for most readers.
Don’t be intimidated by the size of this book. It is quickly paced, en-
thralling, and anything but boring. It tells the story of Edmond Dantes,
a young boy with everything he could ever want, until he is wrongly
convicted of treason and thrown into prison. The novel depicts his
transformation from innocence to insanity as he becomes desperate
for revenge. As his plot for vengeance unfolds, this book will have you
wishing for revenge almost as much as Edmond is. The book develops
many different subplots and characters and does a wonderful job of
tying them all together into the most complex and incredible plot for
revenge ever.
One of the most intriguing novels that I read this year was The Danish
Girl by David Ebershoff. Inspired by the true story of Lili Elbe, the first
transgender woman to undergo sex reassignment surgery, this novel
follows Lili, Einar, and his wife, Greta, through the journey of Einar’s
transformation into Lili. This story brings up an interesting question:
what makes a woman a woman? Although ultimately Lili determines
that undergoing sex reassignment surgery will make her feel like a true
woman, Lili’s journey through identity is a fascinating and enlightening
thing to read as a cisgendered woman, and I do strongly believe that
a person can identify with whatever gender they feel is appropriate for
themselves, regardless as to what is between their legs. Additionally, I
do not believe that there are only two genders, but through literary devices,
such as olfactory imagery and some recurring motifs, Ebershoff
explores the stereotypes of the gender binary, thus causing the reader
to question our perceptions of gender. While this piece does not shed
light on being transgender in today’s society, it reminds us that transgender
is not a new concept, for many people throughout history have
been assigned a gender at birth that they do not identify with. Overall,
The Danish Girl is an intriguing read to explore not only what it might
have been like to be LGBTQ+ in the early 20th century, but also what
challenges one must face when once coming to terms with a person’s
own identity.
The Circle is the best dystopia, realistic fiction, and young adult book I
have ever read. The moment Mae joins the circle  you will get hooked.
The power that the circle has over society is frightening and results in
a great thrill for the reader. Also, the concept of “everything must be
known” is something that you can relate to real life. This company has
a lot of ideas and inventions that seem very realistic, so it is easy to relate
this book to your everyday life. It is an easy read with a lot of twist
and turns, but most importantly, it has you hooked until the end on the 
question of what is going to happen to Mae. I highly recommend this
book to teenagers because it is very relatable  and a fantastic read.
The Circle by Dave Eggers is a great science fiction novel. This book
addresses a near future dystopia where everyone is connected through
technology. This book addresses themes such as privacy, freedom and
confinement, ethics and morals, greed, and control. This book is truly
a page turner that will force a connection between the reader and the
main character Mae. As she navigates taking a new job at the world’s
most dominant tech company on the planet, The Circle.
Encapsulating the potential dystopian future that could result simply
from the technology that we have access to today, Dave Eggers’ The
Circle tells a thrilling tale of a society dominated by a seemingly well-intentioned
tech and social media company, a tale made all the more
terrifying by its proximity to our own society. Eggers ability to build the
world of The Circle is astounding, from his invention of products within
the company to the development of characters that both stand with
and against The Circle’s intentions. The book’s ending will leave you
questioning your own interactions with technology, making it a truly
worthy read.
As I Lay Dying follows a family’s journey to properly honor their mother.
The formatting uses points of view from every character allowing the
reader to understand as deeply as possible what is going on throughout
the story. As conflict ensues and tempers flare, the family grows
closer and farther apart, and they struggle to stay on task. As I Lay Dying
is an a great read for an intellectual reader looking to dig deep into
characters and what they really want.
The Beautiful and Damned captures humanities’ obsession to be wealthy,
loved, excited, and beautiful, while also showing how this desire can
overtake us. At the beginning of the novel, the reader is introduced to
the two main characters, Gloria and Anthony. Gloria is a gorgeous woman
who has been chased by hundreds of men because of her enticing
appearance. Anthony is a Harvard scholar that is the grandson of one of
the most wealthy men in New York. At first, the love of Gloria and Antho-
ny is admirable and elegant, but as the characters grow up together, it
becomes apparent that their relationship is a lot uglier than it looks. The
two struggle to maintain their love for each other as they continuously
put their own superficial desires above caring for each other. This is my
favorite book by F. Scott Fitzgerald, and I recommend it to anyone that
enjoys watching love transform from the beautiful to damned.
The Great Gatsby follows the lives of Nick Carraway who falls into the
life of neighbor, Jay Gatsby. The book places you in the story alongside
the characters, exploring the truths of wealth, class systems, and what
it takes to stay afloat in New York during the Roaring 20’s. Fitzgerald
uses the descriptions of his fantasies to draw you in and keep you content
with every word. The story provokes you to figure things out for
yourself, never truly giving you a straight answer.
The Great Gatsby is a novel told through the perspective of Nick Carraway
who recently moved moved next to a mysterious millionaire
known as Jay Gatsby. He learns about Jay’s secret obsession for Daisy
Buchanan, the wife of Tom Buchanan who lives across the pier. Gatsby
reaches for the green light on Daisy’s dock, but this reach causes lots of
problems to be brought upon him.
My all-time favorite book is the perfect summer romance novel for any
teenager. My Life Next Door follows Samantha and Jace, two teens who
have lived next to each other for most of their lives, but whose paths
have rarely crossed. This book is not your typical, ultra sappy romance
novel as it manages to build in challenges to the principles and morals
of the characters. It is the ideal speed, allowing for detail without
becoming monotonous. On top of that, the supporting characters add
a certain touch to the novel that makes it an entertaining and amusing
read. My Life Next Door is a fan favorite and worth the time of any teen
who wants an easier level read over the summer.
This is a novel based on three boys who had to fly to Florida because
of the Cuban revolution. They grow up in camps in Florida and bring to
light the mistreatment and discrimination towards Cubans. The three
boys have to deal with bullies and staying together. Through ups and 
downs they face adversity while hearing about the collapse of the Cuban
government. They wonder if they will ever be reunited with their
parents again or touch Cuban soil.
How does one memorize 83,431 digits of pi without having a photographic
memory? In Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of
Remembering Everything Joshua Foer recounts his journey from being a
man with an average memory to becoming a finalist at the US Memory
Championships. After a year of preparation with the nation’s top “mental
athletes” and researching various memory techniques, he begins to
understand the unique intricacies of human memory. He attributes his
success in memorization to the methods he employs. Fans of Sherlock
Holmes will remember that the detective uses the memory palace as a
technique to help him solve crimes. A memory palace involves remembering
one thing in order to recall another. At the same time, Foer draws
to the reader’s attention to the history of memorization, highlighting the
roots of modern memorization. At its core, Moonwalking with Einstein
hopes to answer the following question: what is memory? If you are
interested in learning about memory this book is a fast-paced read that
will shift your understanding of the topic.
An exquisitely written mystery, In the Woods is one of those books that
sucks you in immediately, and never lets you go. The first book of the
astounding Dublin Murder Squad series, In the Woods tells the haunting,
yet beautifully spun story of young Katy Devlin; whose broken body
was found in the same woods that main character, Adam (Rob) Ryan
experienced the most traumatizing event of his childhood. Not for the
faint of heart, or those younger than a mature 12, this book faces the disturbing
and incredible as it explores deeper into the twisted and mysterious
circumstances of Katy Devlin. While there are some darker and
often creepy themes, this book is worth it for a glimpse into French’s
creative and enigmatic world.
From Beirut to Jerusalem gives a very interesting yet deep insight into
the Middle Eastern conflict through the story of Thomas L. Friedman’s
life as a reporter in the region. The first portion of the novel goes in
depth about his experiences while living in Beirut and what he got see
that was shut out to the rest of the world. The second part then describes
his time while working in Israel. Having the same narrator/au-
thor on both sides of conflict gives a one kind perspective to the reader.
This book is a must read for anyone interested in the Middle East or
international relations in general.
The play El Método Grönholm is a fascinating short play written in Spanish.
While it is not entirely a mystery, the play makes the reader decipher
whether the characters are telling the truth or merely trying to win
the challenges. Galceran throws curve balls to the reader on almost
every page while also adding wit to the story to decrease the tension.
While a basic understanding of spanish is needed if you want to read it
in spanish, it has been translated to other languages, allowing everyone
to read it. The play is a quick read and a great story to read if you have a
little bit of time this summer.
El Método Grönholm by Jordi Galceran is a book about four candidates
for a single job at a top technology company called Dekia, who have
to go through a series of tests and games while being observed by an
undercover spy who is among them. Throughout the story, there are
many plot twists and changes, and when you think you have figured
it out, there is a turn of events that shake everything up. This mystery
book keeps the reader on their toes, while we uncover secrets of the
candidates and exactly how the Grönholm method is used to select
a candidate for the position. This book is suspenseful with something
new and exciting on every page, and as the story unfolds, the reader
can’t help but think about what they would do in this extreme and uncomfortable
situation.
 Facebook, and Google
The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google, by
Scott Galloway, gives an in-depth look at the four companies that hold
an almost monopolistic hold over our current society. Galloway shifts
his focus from one company to another, describing how they each cater
to a deep human desire/need. For example, Galloway compares
Google to God because nowadays, most humans are more honest with
their Google searches than what they pray for. It is important to understand
the power of the four companies because they are becoming increasingly
powerful. For perspective, Apple’s market cap is larger than
the entire Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the Netherlands. I would
recommend this book for people who are interested economics, busi-
ness, and technology.
Dead End In Norvelt is a book written by Jack Gantos about the story
of Jack Gantos. One summer when his curious mind causes him to fire
his father’s prized sniper rifle, it lands him in hot water. His punishment?
Helping his elderly neighbor. His neighbor Miss Volker writes obituaries
for the town’s newspaper, and Jack Gantos quickly comes to realize the
elderly folks in Norvelt are dying quicker than they should. He becomes
skeptical and leads him on an adventure to places like a bomb shelter
in the search of thin mint cookies.
If you are a fan of Stephen King’s It or Bram Stoker’s Dracula then you
will definitely enjoy this gothic, creepy short story called The Yellow
Wallpaper by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. Throughout the entire story I
was not able to put it down as it was suspenseful till the end. It is a story
about a woman who has postpartum depression, and her husband tries
everything possible to get her better. They move to a house out in the
country, and she is stuck in a room everyday with yellow wallpaper by
the request of her husband. She implores him everyday to let her out,
but he does not listen. As the story goes on readers are able to see her
craziness and illness get worse and worse as her hallucinations seem
to grow everyday. Shadows of a woman seem to appear in the yellow
wallpaper and at the end of the story we later find out who the woman
in the wallpaper is.
This novel is very thought provoking as its premise is to teach the reader
how the unconscious part of the brain functions. It contains specific
experiments done by scientists and psychologists and describes how
our brains put things into categories and make judgements without us
even knowing. The author comes to new conclusions about the actions
you are prone to subconsciously do in a split second because of societal
norms and things that you have witnessed previously. It is extremely
well written and the author is very articulate about his theories and arguments.
It really opened my eyes to a lot of things that I did not notice
before and I loved how I could relate it back to my own life. To read this
book, you don’t necessarily have to enjoy reading about psychology
because I think it would be interesting for all people.
For anyone looking to find motivation and inspiration in their life, David
and Goliath is the perfect book for you. David and Goliath is an inspiring
collection of stories that changes your perspective about being an underdog
and its disadvantages. David and Goliath highlights how underdogs
are able to turn disabilities and disadvantages into advantages.
One of my favorite stories is how a man named Gary Cohn rose to become
the president of Goldman Sachs even though he is dyslexic. David
and Goliath argues that some of our greatest strengths can also be
our greatest weaknesses. David and Goliath develops an appreciation
for an underdog and brings out character qualities that are admirable
and often not recognized in underdogs. David and Goliath also allows
people to understand that setbacks can become setups and some of
your greatest flaws can also be your greatest gifts. After reading the
book I was inspired to think about my problems in different ways and
provided me with a new way of embracing them and overcoming them.
In Outliers Malcolm Gladwell examines the factors contribute to the
achievement of successful people. In the book, Gladwell examines
studies across many subjects from the level of academic achievement
in rural Chinese towns to the success of players in the Canadian Junior
Hockey League. He explains each study in graspable language and in
an easy way to digest. Between the studies Gladwell weaves the life
stories of successful people related to the statistics and his anecdotes
read well.
The book, Outliers, by Malcolm Gladwell is a breathtaking book that
challenges one’s perceptions about life and opportunities in life. Gladwell
explores different stories about people and phenomenons that are
deemed “outliers” in society for challenging the ontological structures.
Through these stories, Gladwell develops theories that try to rationalize
these success or unsuccessful stories. All in all, Gladwell gives insight
to the reader about characteristics necessary to succeed in life. I would
100% recommend this novel to to one seeking a humbling and inspirational
story.
a Big Difference
The Tipping Point, by Malcolm Gladwell, is about how a trend, idea, or
social behaviors can cross a certain point causing that idea to spread 
throughout the world. The book uses statistics taken from many surveys
to explain why certain fashion trends grab hold, or a drop in crime
rates spreads so quickly. Malcolm Gladwell analyzes many different situations
where there is a sudden drop or increase in certain things to
show how there is a tipping point that causes an epidemic. If you are
someone who likes to learn about how or why things happen then you
will like this book.
This is the story of a girl who struggles to find her footing in the world
after escaping from sex slavery. The girl, Charlie, who has struggled
with self-harm and abuse all her life, discovers how to protect and respect
herself. The story begins in a mental health hospital, but she is
released prematurely for financial reasons. She is thrown into the world
and forced to find work, a place to live, and new friends all on her own.
The story follows the challenges Charlie is faced with. The story is both
exciting and heart breaking, and you won’t be able to set it down after
you begin reading.
Killers of the Flower Moon is an enticing and eye-opening novel. It is the
story of the Osage tribe in Oklahoma during the early 1920s. This tribe
had become incredibly rich due to the amount of oil on their land. This
book completely exposes American racism as this tribe is completely
taken advantage of. The book follows the mysterious murders of over
20 Osage members in a historically accurately and exciting way. It will
make you hate Americans, and wonder how you had never heard of
these tribes before.
Gone is the first book in a six book series by Michael Grant. His writing
has kept me on the edge of my seat throughout Gone and the rest of
the series. The book takes place in Perdido Beach, California where a
nuclear accident occurs and everyone above the age of 15 suddenly
disappears. A large trabslucent dome has trapped the kids in Perdido
Beach. Strange things begin to happen to the animals and kids inside
the dome and everyday is full of danger and survival. People begin to
choose sides in an impending war. The main character must find a way
to survive and save the people who he values most. This is a great read
and it will instantly grab the attention of the reader.
The book Longbow is about a Danish boy who shoots a deer that a Norman
nobleman was hunting with a forbidden weapon, the longbow.
Set in England in the 1100s, the nobleman’s men go up to the mountains
to hunt for the missing bow, and in the process, the boy’s father is
killed. Distraught and enraged, the boy shoots all but the nobleman’s
son who manages to escape. The boy is forced to flee, and through
the process has adventures with a Norman knight, visits the great city
of London, and has to deal with a relentless assassin on his tale. This
action-packed book captivated me from start to finish and is one of the
few books that gives depth to each and every character.
The Gray Man follows the story of Court, the best assassin in the world.
When Gentry’s life gets turned around after a mission gone wrong, he
is sent on the run forced to consider his values. I very much enjoyed
reading this book, and the fast-paced action kept me engaged the entire
time. This book is a page turner with thrilling action; I could not put
it down. While this book is not one for the faint of heart, I highly recommend
The Gray Man to anyone looking for an action-packed novel that
will keep you on the edge of your seat.
An Abundance of Katherines by John Green is the most intriguing, exciting,
and unique book I have read in a while. I started it on a Friday night,
and by Sunday morning, I was beyond sad to have already finished it.
The book follows the life of Colin Singleton and his best friend Hassan
Harbish as they travel to a town called Gutshot, Tennessee, where they
search for new experiences, love (for Colin mainly of people named
Katherine) and adventure and end up finding all of that and more. You
will not be able to put down this book, and you will fall in love with each
character. Whether you are looking for some motivation, or just a little
fun this summer, this book will inspire you and make you laugh out loud.
If you enjoy heart-wrenching, moving novels, I highly recommend you
read An Abundance of Katherines by John Green. This adult teen novel
was a 2007 Michael L. Printz Honor book and a finalist for the Los
Angeles Times Book Prize. Following Colin Singleton, a high school
graduate who was once a child prodigy with an obsession for anagramming,
the novel highlights his growth as a young man. When it comes
to relationships, everyone has a type. As the novel’s title suggests, Col-
in Singleton’s type is girls named Katherine. He has dated, and been
dumped nonetheless, by 19 Katherines. After his last relationship ends,
he decides to venture into the unknown in search of love on a road trip
with his best friend, Hassan. Ultimately as the scenery changes on their
trip, both Colin and Hassan change as people. Through self reflection,
Colin’s individuality is emphasized and he begins to learn who he truly
is and what he wants in life–which may not include a Katherine. If you
enjoy coming of age novels about growth, dreams and knowledge, you
should definitely read An Abundance of Katherines by John Green.
Looking for Alaska follows a teen, Miles Halter, when he goes to Culver
Creek Boarding School and is faced with new friends, new experiences,
and a new girl. Alaska Young is witty, gorgeous, and mysterious. Miles
has an obsession with last words, especially dead poet Francis Rabelais’
“seeking a great perhaps.” Alaska leads him into a completely new
outlook on the world and shows him life. Looking for Alaska is a great
read because it shows you how much one life can affect another. If you
have read any of John Green’s other books or are looking for a good
teen romance with a twist, Looking for Alaska is the book for you!
Looking for Alaska by John Green seeks to understand and elaborate
on teen friendship and bonding. It highlights the lengths people will
go to keep their friendships and the what happens when those friendships
are put to test and shattered. The plot follows Miles Halter as he
attends Culver Creek Preparatory High School and the experiences he
gains with his newfound friends. After reading this book, I reflected on
my own friendships and wondered what would happen if tragedy stuck
us. Whether we would stick together of fall apart. Overall, John Green
has created a very relatable, and overall heart warming book, that lets
you take a step back and view your own life through a new lens. I highly
recommend this book to anyone who values friendship and companionship.

Looking for Alaska by John Green is a fantastic book entailing the fantastic
life of a boarding school teenager’s experiences discovering himself
in a new environment. In the novel, Miles, the main character, learns
to cope with new adventures, new friends, a challenging school, his
emotions, and a climatic event that the book seems to revolve around.
As he meets Alaska, someone who will forever change his life, he learns 
how to be confident, courageous, and learn how to cope with the inevitable.
This was one of my all time favorite books, and I would definitely
recommend it to anyone looking for a little bit of adventure.
Paper Towns by John Green follows the totally average life of Quentin
Jacobsen until one night when his long time crush and next door neighbor,
Margo Roth Spiegelman, asks for his accompaniment on a night to
remember. They drive all around Orlando, wreaking havoc on the people
who have wronged Margo throughout high school. In the morning
though, Margo is gone. What ensues is a wild, mysterious goose chase,
following the clues that Margo left for him. The book is an easy read
with laugh-out-loud moments along with moments of heartfelt sincerity.
Most of all, it is a taste of teenage life, and it possesses an authentic
high-school-feeling that any teenager can appreciate.
Paper Towns is a captivating unique novel that follows the life of the
Quentin Jacobsen who has been hopelessly in love with his wildly mysterious
and beautiful neighbor, Margo Roth Spiegelman, for all of his
life. Their friendship, by the time they reach high school, has deteriorated,
until one night Margo sneaks into Quentin’s room and invites him
to join her on a mission of revenge. The next morning, however, Margot
is gone. The rest of the novel follows Quentin on a mission to find Margot
through the clues that she left behind for him. The book is divided
into three sections: The Strings, The Grass and The Vessel. The name
of each sections follows a certain theme (The Strings is about irreversible
change; The Grass is about friends and memories; The Vessel is
about journeys and destinations) and Green does an amazing job of
tying unique and thoughtful metaphors into each element of the story.
The Fault In Our Stars follows the journey of a teenage girl named Hazel
who is dealing with cancer. The author is able to strike the reader with
emotions and develop a connection with the main character. When
Hazel first learns of her disease she is distraught and tries to hide herself
from the outside world, but when she meets Augustus everything
changes. Augustus is another teenager dealing with cancer, except he
has a very different perspective than Hazel. Together, along with another
friend, Isaac, live the remainder of their lives to the fullest, and do
everything that they didn’t get the chance to experience before. Hazel
finds a new side of herself through her disease and her new friends. 
This book is great for everyone because through the romance and adventures
almost every person can develop a personal connection to
the characters in come way. It is an emotional read that truly gives the
reader a different perspective on this disease.
The Fault In Our Stars is a meaningful story about a girl who has to overcome
significant obstacles that could determine her entire future. The
novel is written in a way so that people of all ages could comprehend
the information and relate. It was a heartwarming, tragic, and moving
story that kept you on your feet the whole way through, and it was realistic
enough for people to actually relate to the characters. It forces the
reader to think about your own being and how meaningful and lucky
you are to even have a life. By the end of The Fault In Our Stars, I was
brought to tears.
Turtles All The Way Down offers an intriguing blend of a mystery and detective
adventure with the relatable, high school plot lines often found
in John Green books. The novel is told through the eyes of Aza, a 16
year old girl who struggles with anxiety and OCD. When a mysterious
businessman goes missing, Aza and her friend Daisy spring to action,
hoping to claim a $100,000 reward. Throughout her journey to find out
what happened, Aza simultaneously has to navigate the world of friend
and boy drama and work to improve her mental health. The end result
is a funny and, at times, sad story that is well worth the read.
This is by far the best book that I have read in a very long time. In my
opinion, John Green’s ability to evoke every emotion under the sun
through his writing is unparalleled. Additionally, he is able to give each
character such a depth of backstory that the reader is able to relate
on an incredibly personal level. The bare bones of the book follows a
16 year old Aza who has severe anxiety and her best friend Daisy, as
they attempt to discover the whereabouts of billionaire Russell Picket
through the help of his son, Davis. However, the actual plot is so much
more complicated and entertaining from the first word to the last period.
I would highly recommend this book, if nothing else than the incredible
plot twist at the end!
Christopher Boone is a teenager living in England with Asperger’s syndrome.
The curious boy finds his neighbor dead dog, Wellington, in the
lawn. Always having respected Wellington, he wonders why anyone
would want to kill the dog. Christopher has always been a fan of Sherlock
Holmes, and decides to try some detective work of his own. He
chronicles his works, and his journey to find the motive for the killing of
Wellington leads him to a finish no reader will expect.
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Nighttime is one of the best perspective
mystery books I have ever read. It follows the journey of Christopher
Boon, a fifteen year old kid who suffers from Asperger’s Syndrome.
The tale is extraordinary at detailing the mystery along with
following the narrative of his syndrome. The book places the reader
in a persuasive and scared kid, trying to find his mother along with the
culprit of the murder of his neighbors dog. Christopher’s lack of trust
makes him vulnerable to the adults he meets along his journey, and he
must learn how to persevere to find the truth. This complex story leads
to many intriguing and exciting plot twists which leaves the reader and
Christopher wondering who they can trust.
I was hesitant to read this book because of the somewhat girly, princess-esque
cover, but I’m very glad that I did. My Lady Jane is the tragic
story of Lady Jane Eyre, who was decapitated after only nine days as
Queen of England in 1553. This story, however, isn’t quite so morbid: in
fact, only the first half of the historically fictional novel sticks to the true
story, and only just. Instead of the non-consensual marriage and tragically
short life of the real Lady Jane Eyre, Ashton, Hand, and Meadows
construct a story with much more romance, magic, and humor. If you’re
interested in a story that will literally make you laugh out loud and will
not at all contribute to the growth of your historical knowledge, My Lady
Jane strikes the ideal balance between the two.
While not a love story or dystopian novel, Sapiens is perhaps the best
book I have ever read. The nonfiction work by historian and professor
Harari gives you an in-depth look at the inner workings of human evolution
and modern anthropology. If you have ever been the slightest
bit interested in the human brain, the hominid Lucy, or the giant mammals
that lived alongside early humans (spoiler: 6,600-lb sloths that 
we hunted to extinction), I would highly recommend this book. If you’re
not interested, you will be after reading the first page. This book gives
readers an incredible, coherent summary of human evolution, as well
as chapters on theology, biology, and chemistry. If you want to learn
about the foundation of humanity, civilization, religion, and even geologic
history, this is definitely the book for you.
Mr. Bump, by Roger Hargreaves, is a classic diamond in the rough. It is
a simple book and easy to grasp making it a pleasurable read, but the
book hides a dark undertone. It is a story that follows the life of a social
pariah who is outcast due to his unavoidable accidents. Mr. Bump is a
young man who looks slightly disfigured due to the fact that he is constantly
getting hurt. The story depicts how luck can control and change
someone’s life. This novel also has the power to immerse the reader in
the vast world of the Mr. Men and Little Miss books. The powerful writing
accompanied by the classic artwork makes this story a must read. I
would give Mr. Bump a 10/10.
Paula Hawkins, author of The Girl on the Train, delights readers with another
thrilling page-turner. In a small town, two people are found dead,
both having met the same fate at the bottom of a cliff. Are the deaths
related? Were they both murdered? Each chapter provides a change in
perspective, bringing the reader closer and closer to the dramatic climax.
As the characters rely heavily on memory, Hawkins explores how
memories can change, determining how the past affects the present.
The Girl on the Train is a page-turning book you will not be able to put
down. It is a mystery about a woman named Rachel who watches a
couple from the train she rides each day. She witnesses their love and
their affairs from afar but soon finds herself wrapped up in them. The
book follows Rachel as she tries to pieces together her missing memories
from the day the girl she has been watching goes missing. It is
a fantastic murder mystery that will leave you wanting more pages to
turn!
In our modern world, which is dominated by Keynesian economic
thought and government intervention, Henry Hazlitt goes against grain 
of mainstream economic thought with Economics in One Lesson. Published
in 1946, in this classic, Hazlitt speaks on different kinds of government
intervention in the economy such as subsidies, regulations,
and taxes. In Economics in One Lesson Hazlitt goes over the most common
economic fallacies plaguing the economic world some examples
would be, “machines take away jobs from the working class,” “the government
can create jobs by employing more people,” and “subsidies
can help dying industries.” Hazlitt recommends in Economics in One
Lesson that nations should decrease the amount of intervention in the
economy and let the free market grow and thrive on it’s own. Some of
these ideas have influenced leaders and economists around the world
and this book’s ideas still has influence  our modern world. This book
is a must read for anyone who is just starting to read about economics,
free market economics in particular.
This book is a great insight to the man, the myth, the legend, Dave Grohl.
Michael Heatley digs deep to find very interesting and amusing information
in this biography about the powerful driving force behind Nirvana
and the Foo Fighters front man. It covers all information from his
humble beginnings to his rise of stardom. No information is left out and
by using interviews and quotes from Dave himself, it is a great window
into Dave’s life. To any musicians or fans of NIrvana or the Foo Fighters,
this book is a great read. Even if you are not into those bands, Dave’s
interesting life and organic rise will most definitely have you laughing
and impressed.
Dune is one of the best science fiction books I have read in years. This
book is unlike anything else, reaching a creativity level I have never
read in a book before. Set on the desert planet of Arrakis, Dune follows
the life of Paul Atreides who eventually becomes a powerful sign of
rebellion known as Muad’ Dib. He avenges a disloyal plan against his
royal family by unifying and changing the people of Arrakis. The alien
society represented is more complete and complicated than other science
fiction novels, translating easily to modern civilization today. The
detailed analysis of politics, religion, and philosophy by Herbert in this
book was fascinating and enthralling. If you are looking for a captivating
and gripping read, Dune will become one of your favorite reads.
 Resilience and Redemption
Unbroken is an interesting, nonfiction novel by Laura Hillenbrand that
highlights the life and character of Louis Zamperini who qualified for
the 1936 Olympics. Unfortunately, Louis Zamperini can not compete in
these Olympic games because of WWII, and instead decides to enlist
in the military to fight the Axis powers. His internal strength and toughness
is tested later in the novel when Japanese fighter pilots shoot his
plane down leaving him stranded in the middle of the Pacific ocean
without food or any other sustenance. Even though it seems that things
can not get worse, Louis Zamperini and his fellow servicemen are later
discovered, captured, and placed in a prison camp by the Japanese.
Louis Zamperini is tough and will not break no matter the severe conditions
he endures at sea and in prison.
This novel The Outsiders by S.E. Hinton is quite an easy read, as it was
written by a high schooler and was published when the author was 18
years old. This novel is set in the ’60s in Oklahoma. In this book, two
rivaling gangs, the socs and the Greasers, are in a conflict. Johnny and
Ponyboy, two greasers, are approached one day by a few socs and the
encounter results in Johnny killing one of the socs in an attempt to protect
Ponyboy. This rest of the novel describes the conflict between the
two gangs and involves both tragedy and redemption. The book explores
the idea of teenage gangs and exemplifies true brotherhood. It is
a great, easy read for anyone looking for a thrilling, action packed book.
The Outsiders by S.E. Hinton is a coming of age novel following the life
of Ponyboy. Ponyboy does well in school, but because he’s a “greaser”
he faces many challenges. From being jumped by a rival gang to dealing
with girls, Ponyboy’s narration is interesting and authentic. It tackles
issues of classism and death all in one novel. I would recommend this
book to students who want a thought provoking read.
Alone On The Wall is a biography about Alex Honnold, written by Alex
Honnold himself along with David Roberts, which carries the reader to
the daring risks and emotions that a free solo climber faces. Honnold
is a world-renowned climber famous for climbing some of the hardest
routes around the world, all without a rope. The book recounts the
risk factor analysis that Honnold goes through before every climb, and
somewhat expected, he is very nonchalant about the risk of dying,
which is crucial for him to remain calm on his strenuous climbing en-
deavors. It can be hard for anyone to understand the appeal of free
soloing, but through the book, Alex Honnold subjectively justifies his
interest in this high risk sport. It is important to keep an open mind while
reading this book because it brings up the idea of this sport that 99.99%
of people would not consider doing; however, these athletes want to
push the bar further in physical and mental ability. Alex Honnold has
free soloed some impressive feats including El Capitan (5.13+) in Yosemite
and Moonlight Buttress (5.12c) in Zion National Park. I would
highly recommend this book for a climber at any level or someone who
is interested in the limits of human capacity in relation to the outdoors.   
The Kite Runner is a truly great read that flashes back to the childhood
of Amir Khan. Amir Khan grew up in Kabul, Afghanistan to a wealthy
family. Amir is best friends with his servant’s son, Hassan. They both
grew up together and share a passion for kite flying, but come from two
different ethnic backgrounds. 20 years later, Amir is in America when
he gets a phone call that reveals his whole life to him. The Kite Runner
is full of suspense,, and brotherhood. It is a powerful and moving novel
that you can’t put down. The book shows the power in our actions and
it truly has a great ending. The Kite Runner is filled with different “aw”
moments and will give you a new point of view in life.
A Thousand Splendid Suns by Khaled Hosseini is a page turner that follows
two woman, Mariam and Laila, and portrays the reality and oppression
women endure in Afghanistan. This novel appears to be long
and can seem overwhelming; however, it captures your attention from
the beginning with the heartbreaking stories and creative writing. As
well, the book never gets boring since it is full of plot twists that will
leave you speechless. The unimaginable stories told combined with
the eloquent writing allows the reader to become attached to each
character. Alongside the engaging story, this book also educates you
about Afghanistan’s history and, more specifically, the treatment of
women. Overall, this book is compelling, beautiful, heartbreaking, and
important.
A Thousand Splendid Suns by Khaled Hosseini is an intriguing and fast
paced novel that will keep you flipping pages. Set during war time in Afghanistan,
A Thousand Splendid Suns follows the journey of two women
who end up married to the same man. The novel follows these women 
through abuse, tragedy, and war, chronicling the lessons they learn and
relationships they have. A Thousand Splendid Suns combines an interesting
story with important historical context that will make you reevaluate
your preconceptions regarding the Middle East. I highly recommend
this book; although somewhat intimidating in volume, it is well
worth the read.
Does everyone deserve a second chance? Or should one’s past stain
their future? These are among the many questions put forward by Victor
Hugo in Les Miserables. Les Miserables follows an ex-prisoner who
turns his life around to become a beneficiary, devoting his entire life towards
helping others and redeeming himself from the guilt of his past.
On his path, he seeks redemption and peace amidst the French Revolution.
For any french speakers, I highly recommend reading the book in
its native tongue, as no translations can ever weave the words together
like Victor Hugo did.
Coming home from college seems like a blessing, getting to spend
time with your family, but instead it was the opposite. After the President’s
plane was shot down, all hell broke loose. It was a war with two
tribes fighting against another, but with one tribe amounting to 83% of
the population called the Hutus, and the other to 15% being Tutsi, there
was no chance. The main character Immaculee tells us the horror and
trauma that was going through her head, along with the constant fear
of being hunted down and gruesomely slaughtered by the Hutus. But
along her journey she uses God’s guidance to escape her imminent
execution. This was a great read, but also very upsetting. It makes you
contemplate life and thought that you might not be as safe as you think
you are.
Left to Tell is an autobiography of Immaculee Ilibagiza that tells the story
of her family and growing up during the Rwandan Genocide. Through
the genocide she shares her story and allows the reader to empathize
with her and feel the true tragedy that she tries to convey. Her story is
one that inspires fear, sadness, and hope in everyone and is a fantastic
representation of the Rwandan genocide as a whole. For those going
into Revolution and Conflict or those that want to read an inspiring story,
this is the book for you.
The Girl Who Stopped Swimming is an enthralling murder mystery about
a young girl found dead in her friend’s pool. While the cops try to solve
the mystery, main character Laurel is visited by the girl’s ghost, who
helps her solve the mystery of her death. This book shows the bitter
side to family dysfunction and provokes empathetic emotions towards
the victim’s family. Jackson excellently displays the struggles of life,
touching on topics such as death, family, and making decisions, giving
them angles which need to both be brought to the surface and worked
through. Overall, I would recommend this book for anyone looking for a
good summer mystery read.
If you have any interest at all in true crime and mysteries, Truly Devious
is a must read. Stevie Bell, a true crime enthusiast, is accepted to the
highly prestigious Ellingham Academy where tuition is free and the only
application is to write an essay about why you think you should be accepted,
showcasing a true passion for something. However, Ellingham
Academy was also the scene of a grisly kidnapping of Albert Ellingham’s
wife and daughter, the wife later found dead and the daughter
never found. As Stevie Bell unravels the decades old cold case, she
struggles with anxiety and panic attacks as well as an unexpected
event that turns her whole new life at the school, upside down. Has
Truly Devious, the one responsible for the kidnappings so many years
ago, returned? If so, who’s next?
Kingbird Highway is the true story of a 16-year-old high school dropout
Kenn Kaufman hitchhiking across North America for his 1973 big year
attempt. He spends the entire year trying to see as many bird species
as he can in the United States and Canada. Along the way he not only
finds hundreds of birds and a few friends, but stumbles upon an entire
birding community. A report of a rare bird sends him across the continent
in hopes of seeing a Loggerhead Kingbird or a Common Redshank.
During his year-long sprint across North America, he begins to
realize that he is not truly seeing what is right in front of him. In this odd
coming of age story, Kenn Kaufman manages to describe in great detail
birding and the life of a young birder.
Milk and Honey by Rupi Kaur is a powerful and haunting read which
serves to empower and comfort readers. It provides insightful reflec-
tions about the life of a modern day woman. Short poems and doodles
keep readers flipping pages for hours on end. Poetry is made accessible
to all through her short insightful reflections and playful but poignant
energy. Placing a magnifying glass on the understated inequality
of the modern era, Milk and Honey powerfully preaches self love. While
not for the faint of heart and rich with saddening detail, the collection
ultimately provides a wonderful collage of personal experiences, lessons,
guidance, and humor with some political undertones. It is a quick
read, but one that draws you in over and over again.
Rupi Kaur is well known for her beautiful and thought-provoking poems.
This book of poems is split into five core focuses: wilting, falling,
rooting, rising, and blooming. For those who enjoy reflecting on the past
and feeling a rush of emotions, The Sun and Her Flowers, is a book for
you. Kaur reflects a lot on her experience growing up as a woman. The
book begins with the struggles she has faced, and she uses her voice
through poetry to depict her hardships. The book ends on a more positive
note about Kaur “blooming” and how she has come to accept herself
in various ways.
Although it was a book I read for English class, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s
Nest by Ken Kesey offered a fascinating and in-depth look at power
imbalances that were prevalent within mental institutions during the
late 20th century. The book’s story evolves to the point where patients
attempt to overthrow their orderlies, and the conflict that ensues is not
only comedic, but suspenseful and dramatic.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, by Ken Kesey, follows the life of several
patients in a mental hospital. When the main protagonist, Randle
McMurphy, is admitted to the hospital, he inspires a rebellion in the
patients to revolt against the powerful and controlling dynamics of the
institution and its staff. Through their thrilling rebellion, the patients of
the hospital improve drastically with their illness and become more
confident, eventually leading them to feel more like normal people. The
book is interesting, exciting, and insightful, and I would highly recommend
it.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest by Ken Kesey is a book that takes place
in a mental hospital in the late 1950s  through early 1960s. Placed in a
life of monotonous routine, a Schizophrenic American Indian named
Broom Bromden recounts the events that occur in the hospital. The
patients’ and hospital administration’s lives are turned upside down by
the arrival of Randle McMurphy. Although he claims to be a psychopath,
there is suspicion around this diagnosis due to the fact that he
seems “normal.” McMurphy challenges the Big Nurse and helps bring
together the patients in the hospital, but he also brings life back into
the institution. This well written novel brings up interesting questions
about society’s stigma of mental health. Although it is graphic at times, I
would suggest this to someone who is interested in learning about how
mental health treatment has evolved into present day.
If you are someone who loves a novel that changes the perspective of
the narrator and makes you feel out of your comfort zone while you also
learn a lot, then One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest is for you. In the novel,
Ken Kesey digs into the lives of mental patients in an asylum in the middle
of the 20th century. The novel describes how poorly the patients
were treated as they tried to make their extremely tough lives a little bit
better inside the ward. This book was so interesting to me due to the
fact that the narrator had mental disabilities, which really changes how
the book was written in comparison to a regular book. His vivid descriptions
of his treatment at the ward are both fascinating and terrifying at
the same time. This book teaches the reader that despite very subtle
differences, people with mental disabilities are just that, people. They
have thoughts and opinions on things and they are capable of doing
great things.
Flowers for Algernon is one of the most captivating books and is unlike
any other. It is narrated by a developmentally disabled man named
Charlie Gordon. The writing of the novel reflects Charlie’s intelligence,
with many words being misspelled and grammatically incorrect. However,
he takes part in this trial that promises to help him gain intelligence,
it only proving successful on a lab rat named Algernon. As he
narrates and words become clearer to the reader, trouble arises Charlie
remembers his past and complications of the trial begin to show with
Algernon. This book is hard to put down and is one that will keep you
guessing.
The book All American Boys by Brendan Kiely and Jason Reynolds focuses
on police brutality and the fairness of the American justice system.
Two young boys that go to the same school meet each other in an
unexpected way. One boy, Rashad, is falsely accused of shoplifting and
assaulting a woman in a corner store. He is then beaten by a local police
officer. Another boy, named Quinn, witnesses this brutality and pretends
that he hasn’t seen it. Quinn faces many moral dilemmas while he
tries to decide what to do with what he saw. I found it inspiring how the
students began a protest in honor of Rashad against police brutality. I
enjoyed this book because it included thrills, action, and drama. It also
touched on real life problems such as police brutality. It is an inspiring
book that will keep you on the edge of your seat and make you think
twice about our justice system.
With the futuristic world of The Diabolic, prepare to get sucked into the
story of Nemesis, a diabolic who exists only to protect Sidonia, the one
and only child of Galactic Senator von Imperyan. When the senator displeases
the emperor, Sidonia is called to Chrysanthemum, the capital
of the galaxy. The only way for Nemesis to save her is to go in her
place. I was immediately captivated by the multiple levels to this story
as Nemesis struggles to fit in with the elite members of society when
she grew up as property to the Imperyan family. Every chance I had, I
wanted to grab the book and discover what was going to happen next.
As a huge fan of the dystopian and fantasy genres, I believe anyone
who enjoys action, complex relationships, and a couple of plot twists
will find this novel extremely interesting.
Have you ever wished to be back in the days where life was simple?
Where your mind had an absence of stress, of worry? The novel It by
Stephen King encompasses the not so ordinary lives of several children
with each of their own unfortunate backstories that come together
under unique circumstances. The novel offers an accurate lustrous
nostalgia of childhood anyone can reminisce about. The children come
across an entity known as “It” that threatens the lives of all the youth in
their town, Derry, Maine. Together, they attempt to put an end to this
entity before it kills them all.
The Dark Tower: Gunslinger, by Stephen King, is an action, adventure, 
mystery story that takes place in a mysterious and strange world. The
Gunslinger chases a man in black through towns, deserts, and mountain
ranges. The man in black has power to control people and wants
to harm the Dark Tower, which the Gunslinger wants to protect. The
Gunslinger has given up everything to catch the man in black. The gunslinger
is close, but he is always a day or so behind. The Gunslinger
has to face many different physical obstacles and foes throughout the
book. He uses his two revolvers to mow down his enemies as he conquers
the physical challenges. The Gunslinger has a mix of traits. He is
smart, aware of his surroundings, and really strategic, but he trusts no
one, and is cold and hostile. This book is an in-depth read about how he
got to be a gunslinger and how he continues to be the last gunslinger.
The book is a new outlook on his world and on our own world too, as
the Gunslinger encounters many questions we ask about our own existence.
This fiction book is the first book in the Dark Tower series by Stephen
King. It follows the gunslinger, a man named Roland, with a mission: to
catch the Man in Black. Follow him on his journey across the desert,
see him overcome obstacles and meet new people, and see whether
or not these new friends are as important to him as his mission. Slowly
get a look into his past and discover why he is chasing the Man in Black,
and if he ever catches him. This book is perfect for people who like a
fast-paced book full of action and and adventure. It keeps you interested
until the end and make you want to read the rest of the series
immediately.
The Green Mile is one of the few books by Stephen King that is not horrifying.
This book addresses how kindness is able to form bonds that
bridge drastically different people. The book is about a prison guard
Paul Edgecomb that meets John Coffey, a death sentenced prisoner,
that was accused of a crime that he didn’t commit. Through various
interactions with John Coffey, Paul slowly believed John Coffey and his
story. John Coffey’s special powers saved multiple people in the book
softening everyone’s heart. This book really does drive home on how
first impressions can lead to severe consequences. I highly recommend
this book for anyone that is looking for a book to really connect with.
I was wandering up and down the bookshelf in my mom’s room when 
a bright blue cover caught my attention. I pulled it out to see a black
stick figure of a man with a red target across him. Intrigued, I flipped
the book over and read the summary on the back. Little did I know, this
summary would lead me into one of the better dystopian society books
I have ever read. Before the era of Hunger Games or Divergent, Stephen
King creates novel way ahead of its time. The story brings the reader
into a somewhat unlikely future of America. The majority of the population
is sick and poor, and overall health is degenerating. A game show
network has taken over, and all people do is live in self pity and watch
the games. However, this isn’t your classic Jeopardy or Family Feud. The
stakes of this game; live or death. Ben Richards’ ill daughter drives him
to the gaming facility in the hopes of earning money. He is selected for
the most high risk and high reward game there is; The Running Man. No
one has lasted more than 8 days, and you must last 30 to receive money.
The story traces Richard’s run across America as he is being hunted
by the most skilled marksman alive. With a twist at every chapter and
not a moment without excitement; I recommend this book to anyone
who loves a page turner and a futuristic novel.
Do you think you know things before they happen? Or even think that
some people might be able to? This book is for you. An amazing thriller
of the Torrance family, Wendy, Jack, and Danny who stay at a hotel over
the winter. All alone and nothing to do, the hotel takes the wheel on this
incredible adventure. Will they live, or will Jacks inner demons kill them
all? Who’s to say as Stephen King takes you on a wild ride and explains
exactly what the ‘Shine’ is, and how it works. Don’t work all summer
long, because you know what they say about all work and no play....
The Facebook Effect is a phenomenal book by David Kirkpatrick on
one of the most influential companies of our time. Originally published
in 2004, the book is still as or more relevant and captivating in every
sense of the word, as even our government begins to raise concerns
about Facebook’s seemingly boundless influence. The Facebook Effect,
written with the full cooperation of founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg,
explores how Facebook came to be and the unique position it holds
in society. Facebook and organizations like it have changed our ways
of communication, socialization, and through these, our way of life. As
controversy surrounds this world famous company and its founder, this
book helped me and will help you understand not only the role of this
company, but the role of social media, in 21st century society,
A Piece of the World, by Christina Baker Kline, tells the mysterious story
of the iconic young woman in the Andrew Wyeth painting, “Christina’s
World.” A story of art, determination, and friendship, Kline imagines
Christina’s world: stuck on her family’s remote farm in the small town of
Cushing Maine. Increasingly incapacitated by illness, Christina seems
destined for a small life. Almost 20 years later, however, artist Andrew
Wyeth, knocks on her door and asks if he can stay and paint on the
farm, where Christina and her pain become the subject of one of the
best known American paintings of the twentieth century.
Shoe Dog is written by the creator of the wildly popular company known
as Nike. Phil Knight writes about the story of his life and for the most part
how with the help of a bunch of misfits he struggled through countless
difficulties to revolutionize shoes across the world. While everything he
writes about is true, it is told as a story, and since his company has to
face and overcome struggle after struggle in the book, it is told as a
very fun-to-read story. Phil Knight not only talks about the company he
founded, but also throughout the book does an excellent job explaining
his philanthropy on the world. Shoe Dog is a great book for anyone
interested in starting a business, anyone who is fascinated by struggle,
and anyone who wants to read a non-fiction book told as an excellent
story.
A Separate Peace, by John Knowles, is a multi-faceted story that explores
the dark side of adolescence. It is set at a boarding school on the
East Coast, during World War 2. Gene Forrester, the protagonist, comes
back to his school 15 years after graduating and relives his years at the
Devon School. He wanders around the campus and describes what
happened--in particular, the conflict he had with his daredevil friend
and roommate, Finny. If you like non-fiction stories that are ominous,
dark, and contain many symbols that deepen the plot, then this is the
book for you.
A Separate Peace is a novel about two high school students in a boarding
school, Devon, in New Hampshire. One is Gene, the narrator, who is
very intelligent yet unacknowledged. The other, Finny, is his friend who
excels athletically beyond all others in the school. Finny gets in and out
of trouble constantly and drags Gene with him. They form a secret soci-
ety when they jump out of a tree into a river. Gene begins to envy Finny,
and he believes a rivalry has begun. This novel is a coming of age novel
that explores the competitive teenage mind. It is mysterious, exciting,
and gripping.
I have not finished reading this book, but I am flying through to see what
happens. The book is set on a climber’s journey and the preparation
that he endures in order so that he can climb mount everest. The description
of the trek makes you truly respect the dangers that everest
holds and you can also see why some people get obsessed.
Into the Wild, by Jon Krakauer, is a touching story about a young man
named Christopher McCandless. Christopher is a college drop out who
seeks a different lifestyle than the average student. He leaves his life
behind him and changes his identity. The novel follows Christopher
through his hitchhiking adventure into the Alaskan wilderness. The
touching journey is very insightful about issues surrounding identity.
I recommend this novel to anyone and everyone. This novel is for all
those people who love adventure, the outdoors, and a thrilling story.
The story of American Sniper follows an American hero and his retelling
of traumatic stories from his time in the Middle East. Chris Kyle explains
his journey going from a cowboy within Texas to one of the most decorated
and known snipers within American History. His detailed explanation
of his journey to becoming a U.S. Navy SEAL shows just how hard it
is to be the very best. His wife, Taya, explains the hardships she endures
being away from her husband and his emotions after his tours within
Afghanistan, Iraq, and Pakistan. American Sniper was an amazing book
that showed me how hard war can be in the moment and the physical
and mental toll it takes on a person. The book is an amazing glimpse
into the life of a U.S. SEAL. However, there has also been a movie created,
which I believe is not as good as the book. While I believe the book
is better, in the end of American Sniper the movie, the film honors Chris
and shows his memorial while the book did not (because it was published
before he died). I recommend reading the book then watching
the movie. American Sniper is the true story of a highly decorated and
respected man within the U.S. Navy, this is a truly an amazing book and
I would recommend anyone to read this.
Marin ran away from everything to escape not only her old life, but her
old self. When one of her friends comes to visit her for three days, Marin
is forced to face all the unanswered questions she left behind in California.
Along the way, Marin must come to terms with who she is and
what exactly her identity means to her. A tender portrayal of friendship
and love, this book will have you turning pages until that very last page.
Interpreter of Maladies is a collection of short stories that have a common
theme. Many of the stories are about love and relationships and
the reality of marriages. The novel takes place in India and America, and
explores the differences between the culture and life in each place.
The stories are quick and intriguing once you become invested in the
characters.
In her collection of moving short stories, Jhumpa Lahiri explores the
meaning of home, culture, and belonging. Focusing on the oftentimes
strained interactions between east and west, Lahiri’s stories capture the
nature of the immigrant experience and a deep understanding of being
the cultural black sheep in a relatively homogenous environment.
Though all of these stories are unrelated in plot, they all contain similarly
complex expressions of identity. The characters and stories that
Lahiri depicts feel human in the purest form possible, making this book
an enjoyable and emotional read.
Interpreter of Maladies is a collection of brilliant short stories discussing
topics such as migration, gender roles, relationships, marriage, and
what it means to be an American. The short stories are easy to follow,
intriguing, and are able to provoke important discussion. Each story follows
different characters and plots, but they are also able to be looked
at as a whole. One of my favorite stories follows a family as they travel
to India. The trip is expected to be a family vacation in order to sight see
and learn about the Indian heritage, but with the help of a chauffeur it
turns out to be an eye opening experience for the mother who holds
some dark secrets.
Weeping Under This Same Moon is a beautiful tale based on a true story 
about a Vietnamese refugee and and American teen girl whose paths
cross. Mei is on a boat to America and we see her struggle and her
hope for a new life after the war. Hannah is a misfit at school who learns
about the plight of the Vietnamese immigrants and is compelled to
volunteer to help them. Hannah and Mei may not understand the other’s
language or culture at the start but they become friends. We see
their completely separate journeys come together in a story of love and
friendship during this uncertain time in history.
Dead Wake is an in-depth narrative nonfiction story focusing on the disastrous
1915 maiden voyage of the Lusitania, a luxury ocean liner that
was sunk by a German U-boat in an unprecedented maritime disaster.
It draws from a variety of historical accounts, ranging from the various
governments at the time to the passengers on the boat, to even the
crew of the German U-boat that so infamously sank it. Though nonfiction,
the narrative is gripping and well-written. I was thoroughly entertained
by this book, and could not put it down until the final page.
This is a must-read for anyone who enjoys history, or simply wants to
know more about one of the most impactful disasters of the early 20th
century.
How long does it take to solve a murder, the murder of a daughter of
the wealthiest businessmen in Sweden? Not that long, right? Wrong.
Forty years later, Harriet Vagner is still missing. Everyone has given up
but her beloved uncle who has enlisted the help of Mikael Blomkvist,
owner of the recently-on-trial Millenium newspaper, and a girl with a
dragon tattoo. Thrilling, gripping, and sometimes scary, the novel is full
of family drama, a murder mystery, financial fiascos, and just the right
amount of swoon. This book is often given a bad rap for the amount of
sexual violence it contains, which has been gratified my the movies. In
reality, it sorely lacks in any truly lewd scenes. So try it, if you dare.
The Guardians books are the best books I read in middle school, they’re
relatively short, so not a big time commitment. I remember and there
are about 10 or more of these books and they all make for a pretty good
dystopian future ruled by sentient owls kinda book, if you’re into that
kind of thing. It follows a little baby barn owl after he got pushed out
of his nest by his older brother and he gets sent to a camp where they
brainwash other baby owl orphans with moonlight, honestly that’s all I 
remember, but there are some epic owl fights later, so you have that to
look forward to.
Scott Pilgrim vs The World by Bryan Lee O’Malley is a clever and fun story
about true love and the chaos of life. The book is about bass player,
Scott Pilgrim, who is unemployed and dating a high schooler. All of a
sudden he meets and immediately falls in love with Ramona Flowers, a
rollerblading manic pixie dream girl with weird powers. The only issue is
that in order to date Ramona, Scott must defeat her seven evil ex-boyfriends.
I personally love the Scott Pilgrim series. This book is a funny
quick read that keeps readers engaged and laughing throughout. The
art is great, although it takes a back seat to Bryan Lee O’Malley’s clever
writing. The characters are all interesting and memorable, and the plot
has all sorts of unexpected twists and turns. I would recommend this
book to anyone who wants a quick and fun, yet memorable story.
To Kill a Mockingbird is an interesting book. This book is very thought
provoking. Scout Finch is a young girl who lives a normal life with her
brother Jem. They live with their dad and their housemaid. The siblings
walk to school every day and pass Boo Radley’s house while their dad
works as a lawyer for a colored man who was accused of raping a woman.
This storyline turns the book into a mystery/action book. Overall,
this is an easy read that is very captivating, keeps you on your feet, and
is a good look into what the Great Depression was like.
To Kill a Mockingbird is a historical fiction novel set in the 1930s during
the Great Depression. This story is told through the eyes of a young
girl named Scout and focuses on the battle between good versus evil.
Scout’s father, Atticus Finch, is a lawyer in the Jim Crow south who decides
to defend a black man accused for raping a white woman. This
book also illustrates Scout’s growth and change of character from 6
years old to 9 years old. This is a story that can make you feel everything
the characters go through, happy or sad.
Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird is an American classic intertwined
with social, racial, and moral themes under a deep plot. Set in the 1930’s
during the Great Depression, racial tension is high in the small, southern 
town of Maycomb, Alabama. Narrated by Scout Finch, a little girl who
lives with her older brother Jem, her father Atticus, and a black housekeeper
named Calpurnia, Scout retells a story of three years. In these
three years, Scout shares her coming of age and exposure to discrimination
within her community. Scout and her brother Jim are initially naive
to the racial prejudice within their town. However, after their father’s
decision to represent Tom Robinson, an innocent black man accused
of raping a white woman, the children are quickly exposed to racial tension.
Under the moral teachings of their father, Atticus, Scout and Jem
challenge the racial prejudice in their community. To Kill a Mockingbird
is a longer read with a complex plot that challenges the reader to reflect
on racial and moral issues. I would encourage everyone to read
this novel, as its powerful themes are thought-provoking and relevant.
To Kill a Mockingbird, by Harper Lee, is one of my favorite books for the
amount of detail in the book. The book is set in Alabama in the early
1900s. The book talks a lot about racism and how unfair the court system
was. Jean Finch is the main character, and her dad is a lawyer who
defends an African American man who is thought to have raped a girl.
This story talks about the people who come after Atticus Finch (the
dad) who is defending Tom Robinson who is the black man. This book
is worth reading because of the story line and the amount of detail in
this book.     
Sports fans, this is a book for you. Moneyball goes in depth into baseball
management and how the Oakland A’s manager, Billy Beane, changed
the way people looked at baseball forever. The Oakland A’s become
the first professional baseball team to implement mathematics into talent
evaluation, and the book follows as their formulaic approach helps
them rise the ranks to become one of the best baseball teams in Major
League Baseball. The blend of story telling, baseball, and mathematics
makes Michael Lewis’ novel a must read.
The Blind Side: Evolution of a Game by Michael Lewis helps a young reader
explore the evolution of football and how the game has changed, as
well as the story of Michael Oher who grew to become a football player
himself. Michael, when first adopted by an a privileged Evangelical
family, did not know his father, his birthday, or how to read and write. As
he grows as a person, an adopted brother, and a football player, many 
doors open for him that were not there before. Michael plays the most
important position on the field with the job of protecting the quarterback’s
blind side. During the football season he overcomes many physical
and mental challenges. Read The Blind Side: Evolution of a Game for
the intriguing story of an aspiring football player as he battles his way
into becoming an NFL prospect while learning how the game of football
has developed and changed.
The Three Body Problem is a Chinese science fiction book that is one
of the most popular Chinese science novels ever. When it was published
in the United States with an English translation, it won the Hugo
Award for best novel in 2015. The story follows Wang Miao, a Chinese
Nanomaterials researcher when one day, he starts having mysterious
hallucinations. Soon after, he starts playing a VR game called Three
Body, where players have to help a mysterious civilization figure out the
pattern between Orderly and Chaotic eras. During Orderly eras, civilization
prospers, but during Chaotic eras, the planet reaches scorching
temperatures and society is nearly annihilated. However, the story appears
to connect much closer to reality and Earth than it first appears.
This is a very dense book, with references to modern technology and
advanced scientific principles. However, science and astronomy geeks
will appreciate this great read.
The book We Were Liars, by E. Lockhart is a good book for young adult
and kids. The story is being told from the main character’s point of view.
The book is about a girl that get massive migraines because of an accident
that she doesn’t know happened. Throughout the book the main
character is trying to find out why she gets these brains migraines . This
book is a mystery and a very adventurous book. This is more of an informal
book and this is more of an easier read with not very much vocab.
I enjoyed the book but there is a huge plot twist at the end of the book
that I was very surprising but before the plot twist the book was very
repetitive and and slow.
In the novel, The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks, Frankie
is a sophomore attending a prestigious boarding school that both her
father and older sister attended as well. She is fifteen when the book
takes place, and has grown up dramatically since her freshman year.
She lands herself a senior boyfriend and feels like she is finally being 
noticed in her school. However, she starts realizing that her boyfriend
has been sneaking around with his friends and keeping secrets from
her. She does some sneaking of her own and discovers he is part of
the same all-male secret society that her father had been a part of
many years prior, called the Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds. Being
the cunning and witty individual that she is, she manages to infiltrate
the society and trick all of its members into doing anything she asks of
them. This book is a funny, interesting, and relatable read, and I would
suggest it to anyone who enjoys teen fiction books like We Were Liars,
Eleanor and Park, and the Divergent series.
We Were Liars by E. Lockhart is the story of a girl who got in an accident
one summer, in which she hit her head on a rock. This accident
resulted in her losing her memory of what else happened that summer.
She lives a privileged life in Vermont with her family. The summer she
turned fifteen was when the accident occurred, and they had traveled
to her family’s private island. The only thing she can remember from
that summer was the accident itself, leaving her traumatized. When she
eventually returns to the island a year later, the memories start to come
back to her, but the people that were there for the accident are reluctant
to tell her what really happened that summer.
We Were Liars is a suspense novel that portrays a girl named Candace
who undergoes a traumatic brain injury. She forgets how she got into
the accident that caused it, and as the story goes on, the reader gets
to further figure out the mystery along with her. If you enjoy a good
page-turner with mystery and a major twist, then you will love this book.
This novel is about John Smith, an alien sent from the planet Lorien. He
and eight other aliens were sent down to earth when they were children
to escape the Mogodorians destroying their planet in search of the
source of their mythical powers. The Mogodorians follow them down to
earth to find the last of them and wipe out the entire Loric population,
but there’s a catch. A charm cast on the escapees makes it so they can
only be killed in a certain order, from 1 to 9. Years later, when the story
begins, John is living in Paradise, Ohio, and the first three were already
killed. He is next. He is number four. The story then continues as John
and the rest of the Loric fight for their lives while the ruthless, cold, Mogodorians
never cease to chase them. This book is the first in a series 
of seven.
No Safety In Numbers takes you through a story full of excitement and
action. The book is about a biological bomb going off in a shopping mall
air vent. This causes the government to close down the whole mall and
imprison all the shoppers inside. More and more people become sick,
and people start going crazy and mentally unstable. Over the course of
the book, four teens, each with their personal story, look for ways to get
out and to avoid this disease that spreads slowly throughout the mall. I
recommend this novel for people that like books that are action packed
and full of excitement.
The Underdogs is about boy named Will Tyler who doesn’t let anyone
stand in his way. He may not be the biggest running back in his town,
but once he has the ball, no one can touch him. No one can match the
love that Will had for the game. But once the season got cancelled he
didn’t know what he would do. With no funding for equipment needed
for the sport, it is up to Will to rally up the town and give them something
to believe in.
The book, Lone Survivor, by Marcus Luttrell, takes place in 2005 during
the height of the American military involvement in Afghanistan. The
book follows Seal Team 10 and recounts The story of Operation Red
Wings, where four Navy Seals were secretly inserted deep into enemy
territory to eliminate key Taliban leaders. When their cover is blown, the
mission turns into a full out fight for their lives as a group of more than
400 Taliban fighters swarm upon them. The book details the true cost
of war, not just through statistics, but through the stories of those who
fight them. The story shows how much brothers are willing to do for one
another and the resilience of the human spirit.
Set in a mountain valley in Montana, Maclean takes us through his
young adult life in the early 1900’s on the mighty Blackfoot River in
vivid detail. A competent fisherman in his own right, Maclean’s skills
are greatly overshadowed by those of his brother, Paul, a master in the
art of fly fishing. Below its surface, the story explores complex matters
such as brotherhood and Western identity. This is a quick and beautiful 
read that I return to time and time again. Regardless of whether or not
you are a fisherman, you will be sure to appreciate its beauty and profoundness.
Le Morte d’Arthur, Sir Thomas Malory’s reworking of the legends of the
knights of King Arthur, enchants and delights with its detailed portrait
of these mythic heroes and their adventures. The Arthurian legend fascinated
me as a child, and Malory’s version provides a rich rendering
for adults who still love King Arthur and his knights of the Round Table.
Written in Middle English, the language is certainly challenging. Still,
it is a beautifully written and rewards the reader who is not deterred.
Once immersed in reading, the language becomes more accessible
and even fun. Malory’s version of King Arthur deepened my understanding
of the myth, itself, and of the man. Malory portrays King Arthur
not merely as the “once and future king,” as many authors do, but more
convincingly and tenderly as a man, who, “here in this world . . . changed
his life.”
Matterhorn is a thrilling story following a marine rifle platoon during the
Vietnam War. The book provides a painful description of the war showing
the true horrors of war. The book follows bravo companies struggle
to control Matterhorn (a fire support base). None of them truly understand
the war. The book is hard to put down and goes into great detail
allowing to picture what is happening. While the only way to know what
it was really like would be to be there, the author provides in depth description
of all of the horrors during the war. The lead protagonist is the
ambitious Ivy league graduate Lt. Waino Mellas. The book follows him
as he learns that no decision will have a perfect outcome and how he
has to learn to sacrifice some things for the greater good.
In this book Marshall explores “Ten Maps That Tell You Everything You
Need To Know About Global Politics.” By exploring both international
affairs and people’s everyday lives across the world, through geography
Marshall is able to make a powerful statement. He comes to the
change, almost constant. It has defined society, shaped cultures and
beliefs since the beginning of time as humans adapted to their environments.
Like a God, Geography has covered the earth, constantly influ-
encing decisions and actions, changing the course of history. This book
was eye opening to me, as it turned my perception of society and its
ideologies upside down. It made me aware of geography’s crucial role
in politics even today. Geography and natural resources are the final
restriction on human and political potential.
Life of Pi is an enchanting and thought-provoking novel that follows the
life of a boy named Pi Patel as he is lost at sea. After a dramatic storm,
Pi is separated from his family and thrown on to a life boat with a tiger
named Richard Parker that was being transported on the boat. The
story continues to explain the details of his survival with the tiger and
the psychological struggle of drifting at sea. I found myself lost in the
vivid and almost dream-like description of the sea and animals on the
boat. This novel offers an exciting balance between the peril of life as a
castaway and a beautiful appreciation for all things natural and related
to nature. This book provides the perfect relaxing summer read for anyone
who is looking to escape to the dream-like world of nature’s beauty
and power.  
A Game of Thrones is the first book of 5 in the series, A Song of Ice and
Fire. The book features many plots happening all at once and does a
very impressive job organizing them with each chapter being from a
different character’s perspective. It is a work of fiction, taking place in
the medieval ages when Kings and Queens ruled, but when one particular
Mad King is slain, there begins a game of thrones between power-hungry
lords and rightful heirs. The descriptive language in this book
makes it difficult to pull away and any ready feel a part of the story. I
would recommend this book to any reader above the age of 13 that is
looking to become immersed in a fantasy world, as it has some slightly
mature scenes, but nothing too flagrant.
The novel, A Game of Thrones, is the first in a series of fantasies by
George R.R. Martin. The novel is centered in Westeros, a fictional medieval
world with constant, power-hungry conflicts. Similar to the TV
series, Game of Thrones, the book is full of violence, magic and politics.
However, George R.R. Martin’s books are highly detailed, following
hundreds of well-developed characters throughout many years, all
of whom play a crucial role in Westeros. If you are at all interested in
learning more about the world of Game of Thrones, you should definite-
ly consider picking up the first of this written series. If you enjoy the first
book, you will have plenty to read for years to come, as they are not only
long, but also full of details that you can pick apart as you try to predict
how the series will end.
John F. Kennedy was a historic president whose presidency tragically
ended by assassination. This book is not about his presidency, but
instead of a WW2 story, highlighting Kennedy, hired by Roosevelt, to
embark to Europe on a secret mission. This book is an adventurous and
fast paced novel that hard to put down. I would highly recommend this
novel to any history buff, and Kennedy fans.
The Corsican Caper by Peter Mayle is a mature novel which follows billionaire
Francis Reboul as he romances his way through Southern Frances’
coastal estates. One afternoon, as he basks in the sun on the balcony
of his incredible villa, he spots a yacht owned by notorious Russian
tycoon Oleg Vronsky. While his motives remain unclear, Vronsky will
stop at nothing to obtain Reboul’s massive estate. This mystery-like
thriller forces the reader to anticipate and creates an involved, unpredictable
plot line that makes the book impossible to put down.
Taking place in a post-apocalyptic setting, The Road by Cormac McCarthy,
illustrates the story of a father and a son trying to survive in a devastated
world with few resources and the extreme competition for what
remains. The two face many challenges along their journey, including
other people who are willing to do anything to survive. This allows the
book to be suspenseful and action packed at times and leaves the
reader wondering what will happen next. McCarthy uses simple prose
to depict the relationship between the father and the son and the heart
wrenching challenges they face. This spare style of writing allows the
reader to draw on their own experiences in order to interpret the raw
emotions of the two characters. The story truly allows the reader to
imagine themselves in the place of the characters making it a moving
story and an important book for everyone to read.
One of Us is Lying is a good book for people who like mystery and fiction.
It is an easy read while also keeps you on the edge of your seat. 
The book follows five strangers as there lives come together after they
met in detention. One of the students in detention dies and a murder
investigation begins. The four students have many secrets that come
out throughout the book. The book keeps you wanting to read more as
it intertwines the lives of four unsuspecting students. My favorite part is
the twist at the end. This is a good book for anyone looking for an easy
and engaging read.
One of Us is Lying is a mystery novel about a murder at Bayview High
School. One afternoon, five students walk into a detention session. Several
hours later, only four of them walk out. Simon, the outcast, was
killed during the detention. He was planning on posting gossipy news
about the other kids the next day, making them all suspects in the case.
This story leaves readers curious about who did it, and has the reader
trying to solve the murder as the plot deepens. This is the perfect book
for someone who enjoys mystery novels!
 of a Harvey Girl
The Harvey Girls are the It Girls of the new American frontier. They work
on the railroad lines heading out to the Wild West in eateries dreamed
up by the American entrepreneur, Fred Harvey. In this Historical Fiction
novel, Kitty Evans is a young American girl who leaves home after
landing a job as a Harvey Girl. This is a great book for learning about a
fascinating piece of American history and getting a great read at the
same time. Diary of a Waitress can be read by middle school ages and
up making it an enjoyable read for even adults. The author uses her
research of the Harvey Girls to create a realistic world with events that
are easily imaginable for the reader despite their old-timey feel. Diary
of a Waitress: The Not-So-Glamorous Life of a Harvey Girl shows the grit
and determination by the women who pioneered the West leaving you
wanting more from this stand-alone novel.
Although Twilight will never be remembered for being an example of
‘literature,’ it represents and incredibly enthralling read and a valuable
insight to the cultural phenomenon that swept the nation. It catalogues
the heart-wrenching journey of Bella Swan through her small town of
Forks, Washington. The book begins with a many a boy competing furiously
for her attention, but beware, as not all boys are as they seem. Her
relationships with both Edward Cullen and Jacob Black progress furi-
ously throughout the book, and will make anyone who enjoys romance,
drama, or thriller novels begging to read the second installment in this
epic four-part series.
The Soul of an Octopus is a love story between a writer and the three
hearted, nine brained, master of camouflage; the octopus. This book
examines the wonders of the underrated cephalopods through the
authors beautiful connection with Athena the octopus. This non-fiction
book is simultaneously factual and entertaining. The behaviors, emotions,
and intelligence of octopuses are absolutely remarkable. By the
end of the book you are transported from your anthropocentric world,
into the oddity, mystery, and beauty of elusive creatures under the sea.
The Graphic Novel, Watchmen, provides a deep and meaningful story.
This is one of the few graphic novels that allows a reader to have
a deeper experience than just superheroes and villains. Watchmen is
a noir type mystery, with deep conspiracy themes set in an alternate
universe very similar to ours. The graphic novel focuses on murder, politics,
and philosophical ideas that just aren’t present in other books of
this genre. A great novel to read over the summer; I could not put it
down!
Watchmen is a graphic novel written by Alan Moore and illustrated by
Dave Gibbons. This comic strip style novel focuses on an alternate history
in which masked heroes arose in the 1940’s and 50’s changing the
course of United States history as we know it. The story takes place 40
years later when vigilantism has become illegal and masked heroes
must work for the government, or be considered outlaws. As the United
States edges closer to World War III, and a government sponsored superhero
is murdered, these heroes come out of retirement to get the to
the bottom of the murder which may have larger implications.
The Other Wes Moore, by Wes Moore, is a true story about two different
boys both named Wes Moore. The author shares his story of how he
grew up and the path he took that eventually led him to attend Johns
Hopkins. The author also writes about the story of the other Wes Moore
who went down a path towards drugs and is now serving a lifetime 
imprisonment for killing a police officer. Both Wes Moores lost their fathers
at a very young age and both grew up in Baltimore, but one was
very successful while the other was not. The book is very interesting
as each chapter has a short story of each Wes. It is interesting to see
their lives diverge as the book continues. It also makes it really easy to
compare and contrast both Weses’ lives and paths. I really enjoyed this
book and thought it gave me a great insight into how seemingly small
decisions can completely change and shape people’s lives and futures.
I would really recommend this book to anyone who wants a shockingly
true story about two people with the same name but two very different
fates.
An Eagle in The Snow is a adventure book based on a true story about
a man who could have stopped World War II  from happening. Barney
and his Nan are on a train headed to the countryside after their house
is destroyed in a German air strike. While they are on the train, German
fighters attack the train. In order to protect the passengers the train
hides in a tunnel. While in the close confines of the train in the dark, a
mysterious stranger tells them the story of his friend Billy Byron, who
was one of the most decorated veterans of World War II. Billy elaborates
on the time he was face to face with the worst war criminal of all
time and how he had the opportunity to prevent it all from happening.
Toni Morrison’s Beloved shows the hardships of an African American
woman in the post-Civil War era. It depicts the journey of the main character,
Sethe, as she navigates the relationships in her life while suffering
from the lingering effects of slavery. Based on a true story, Beloved
is raw in its depiction of the hard realities of slavery and provides the
reader with a inside look into stories of slaves that are not typically told.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the lives
of slaves after the Civil War and wants to learn more about their lives
after being freed.
Me Before You, by Jojo Moyes, is an emotional, heartbreaking tale of an
unlikely couple: Louisa Clark and Will Traynor. Due to a tragic incident,
Will becomes paralyzed and requires a wheelchair as well as constant
assistance. When Louisa first takes on the role of his caretaker, Will is
insolent and resists her help, but throughout the course of the novel,
their hatred for each other develops into a powerful relationship. When 
Louisa discovers Will’s plans, she devotes the next half of the year to
attempt to change his mind, and show him that despite his disabilities,
his life is still worth living. This novel is a timeless, tear-jerking story, that
is easy to read, and definitely worth your time.
1Q84 is the most utterly confusing book I’ve read for a while, perhaps
ever. Murakami’s masterful use of language leaves us with far more
questions than answers. As I neared the end of the book, I found myself
wondering how he could tie the many plot strings all together, only to
realize that he didn’t. Yet despite his bewildering plot, the book is still incredibly
enjoyable. The characters are incredibly complex as they navigate
a parallel universe that is both incredibly similar and yet different
from ours. The purpose of the book, is to allow the reader to develop
their own answers, something that Murakami accomplishes with more
dexterity than any other writer I have ever read.
Rafa is one of the most interesting bibliography, about a Professional
Athlete, ever written. The book follows Rafael Nadal, arguably the
greatest tennis player, through his early years into his life as a top pro.
His decision between Tennis and Soccer, his extremely strict uncle, and
his struggles with self confidence during the beginning of his career,
will keep you on the edge of your seat, and help you understand the life
of a pro tennis player. Moving into his professional career he talks about
his endeavors of injuries and his rivalry with Roger Federer. Not only
is this book an interesting story to follow, but it also has many useful
things on sports sociology, and physical training. This book is an easy
read that follows one of the most interesting people on the pro tour, but
will also teach you a couple things about perseverance and overcoming
obstacles.
In I’ll Give You the Sun, by Jandy Nelson, twins Jude and Noah have to
find their way back to each other in this heart-wrenching novel. The
two siblings take you on a different journey throughout different years
of their lives. Something happened to make them alienated from each
other, but after each going through a different adventure on their own,
something wonderful leads them to find each other again and bring
themselves to reconnect and face what happened in their past.
I don’t read many books, and I was hesitant when a friend recommended
this book to me, but within the first chapter I couldn’t put the book
down. It keeps you constantly on edge, and I ended up reading the
book in two days, an all-time record for me. It suspensefully and in detail
walks the reader through when a boy wakes up in the real world,
after committing suicide in the fake world. As the book goes on, he unravels
the horrors of the real world and the reasons why the fake world
was created. I would recommend this book to anyone looking for an
intense book and prepared to pull an all-nighter trying to finish it.
Little Fires Everywhere is an endearing novel about what it means to be
a mother and how family defines who we are as people. Based in the
Ohio suburb of Shaker Heights, Little Fires Everywhere follows mother-daughter
duo Mia and Pearl as they move into the affluent suburb
and navigate their way through the triumphs and struggles of parenting
and growing up. The Richardsons, a very wealthy Shaker Heights family,
grow very close to Pearl and her mother and as a family, they struggle to
define their personal relationships with both of the women. Intertwined
with the story of the Richardsons and the Warrens is a brutal custody
battle, which allows the reader to ponder the notion of motherhood.
The McCulloughs, a wealthy Shaker Heights couple who were gifted
an abandoned infant fight the child’s biological mother, Bebe Chow,
for the right to the baby. Little Fires Everywhere is an eye-opening and
incredibly important novel that I recommend for those who are looking
for a book they can’t seem to put down.
Little Fires Everywhere is a must read! The novel follows the dramatic
stories of several families from Shaker Heights, a historically wealthy
suburb of Ohio, as their complex identities are uncovered to the reader.
The novel tells the story of a distressed woman trying to regain custody
of her daughter, children navigating their teen years, and an overprotective
mother as she medals in her children’s complicated lives. There
is never a dull moment in this book! Every character develops throughout
the novel as they overcome their personal struggles.
Susin Nielsen’s We Are All Made of Molecules is both an emotional yet
humorous novel about an academically gifted but socially challenged
13 year old boy and a popular 14 year old girl who isn’t very intelligent. 
Both are from different families, and their parents get married, forcing
them to live together. Although they first have sibling rivalries, they begin
to bond and help each other through tough instances in their lives.
Not everyone closely relates to the characters and their personalities;
however, there are many times where their interactions closely parallel
those of high schoolers. Additionally, the meaning of the book is to treat
everyone equally, find similarities, and build friendships, all of which are
very important skills to have in high school and life. Overall, the book
was very relatable and I would highly recommend reading it.
This Is Where It Ends, by Marieke Nijkamp, is a book that takes place in a
school auditorium during a shooting. It focuses on the fifty four minutes
that these students were trapped in the auditorium of Opportunity, a
school in Alabama, where nothing ever happens. After a speech from
the school principal, students find that the doors to the auditorium have
been locked, and that they are trapped. The question of how the shooter
decided to act out is explored through the fact that every narrator
has some connection to the shooter and all know him differently. I enjoyed
this book because it does not avoid talking about a problem that
is present in our world today, like many other books do. The author’s
writing permitted me to really empathize with students who have been
present at a school shooting. Once starting this novel, you will not want
to put it down.
Harrowing and heartbreaking, This is Where it Ends is especially poignant
in the wake of the Parkland shooting and the March For Our Lives
movement. Told from the perspective of four different students, each
with connections to each other, the book follows a school shooter’s
rampage with the entire story taking place in under an hour. While
shootings are a topic often danced around, Nijkamp takes the issue
head on, and executes the story almost perfectly. An intriguing and addicting
story, I read this book in one sitting over spring break, and I recommend
it to anyone. The topic of this book is fairly graphic, so younger
readers may not enjoy it as much.
All the Bright Places is a masterpiece for readers who love romance,
mystery and adventure. Throughout the book, the reader develops a
deep connection between the main characters Finch and Violet, who
go on a journey both together and separately. They run into each other 
on top of the school’s bell tower, both there for different reasons, and
form an unbreakable bond. They find the happiness in each other that
they didn’t know they had. The reader goes through a journey of angst,
love, death, and tears. The book is filled with tear-jerking scenes and
unpredictable turns. I recommend this book to someone who is willing
to have tears in their eyes and unable to but the book down.
After taking Revolution and Conflict my sophomore year, I found that
The Things They Carried offered the perspective of a soldier during the
war, which I enjoyed. This book focuses on a platoon of soldiers, each
enduring stress on a daily basis and carrying the trauma of killing. This
book challenges the reader to move from present to past as most of the
book occurs in individual flashbacks from each of the soldiers, detailing
frightening encounters while at war. The war stories are different in
this novel, as there is no true hero, which enables the writer to truly go
through each soldier’s dealing with his emotions and how they stayed
sane while at war. After I finished the book, I became more aware of the
issues and was able to understand the possible side effects of a soldier
must face when returning from war, such as PTSD.
I read this book as an assigned English book, and while it started off
slowly, it quickly became a book that I couldn’t put down. I enjoyed this
book so much that it didn’t even feel like an assigned English reading,
but rather a book that I would like to read in my free time. With each
chapter came a new story that perfectly encapsulated what it was like
to be a soldier in the Vietnam War. These stories are written in a way
that makes the reader feel like he is actually a part of the war. Once
done reading this book you will be left with countless questions you
would have never previously pondered related to truth, death, and so
much more.
The Things They Carried by Tim O’Brien is a book for people who are
open to reading about the gruesomeness of war and its lasting effect
on soldiers. This novel is separated into different sections which discuss
being drafted, killing people, guilt, and the change from civilian to
soldier. If you like learning about soldier and civilian experiences in the
Vietnam War, then this book is perfect for you. Use caution though, as it
includes gory details about death, loss, and guilt.
The Things They Carried is one of the better books that I have ever read.
Reading a book about the Vietnam War, I expected a dark novel that
was full of stories about guys getting their legs blown off. Despite this,
what you get is a book that explores the minds of men during times of
war and how they cope with the depression and PTSD that they end up
carrying after the war. The book is broken up into smaller stories and
flashbacks that don’t have a coherent timeline. Even though this might
sound confusing or strange, it makes for a book that keeps you constantly
entertained. The characters are interesting and all have vastly
different outlooks on life, making for some comical scenes and interactions.
All in all, it’s a very entertaining and quick read. I’m a big fan.
I was always interested in John F. Kennedy’s having been one of the
most popular presidents of all time, and having been on the receiving
end of one of the most high-profile assassinations in history. Killing
Kennedy, by Bill O’Reilly, goes into Kennedy’s past, following his time
in World War II, to all the intricate details of his and Marilyn Monroe’s
relationship, and even that he wore four different dress shirts a day--
freshly starched, of course. Also following the story of Jackie Kennedy,
Lee Harvey Oswald, and Lyndon Johnson, the book recounts each individual
event and decision each person made more than half a century
ago. The book is written like a story, but accurately shows each major
point in the history of the Kennedy administration leading up to the
infamous assassination. It is easily one of my personal favorite books,
fiction or not.
This biography highlights the presidency of Ronald Reagan in new ways
that I had not discovered prior to reading this page-turning novel. Born
in a small town in Illinois, Ronald Reagan was able to pursue through
many life challenges and become a two-term President of the United
States of America. Many credit him with his ability to compromise and
ending the treacherous Cold War with Russia. However, only months
into his presidency, he suffers an assassination attempt by John Hinckley
Jr. Will he ever be able to return to his former self after this attack on
his life? Killing Reagan will give you this answer and much more.
If you are interested in science, Half Brother, by Kenneth Oppel is for you.
This book got me hooked almost right away. Though a work of fiction, 
this realistic book emphasizes the struggles a teenage boy can have.
The main character hates his brother, who is an ape, and his parents’
science projects. The ape gets all the attention, which frustrates the
boy. The family has just moved, and the boy is struggling to find friends.
He makes some bad decisions, and he starts to lose the few friends he
has. At the same time, the ape is taken. To help save his brother, the boy
has to repair his mistakes and fight to save his brother. If you have no
biases, and you are willing to let the book change your thoughts about
events that may affect you in the future, read Half Brother, by Kenneth
Oppel.
Have you ever wondered what a world ruled by a complete totalitarian
government would look like? With George Orwell’s 1984, the reader is
dropped right into the life of Winston Smith in Oceania’s truly dystopian
reality. This book holds all the suspense of an Agatha Christie murder
mystery, the romance of Romeo and Juliet, and the undying spirit of
Unbroken. It’s a true page turner with a decent pace and great background.
It even created its own language and has a full addendum to
help the reader understand it and possibly speak it! So, are you ready
to experience a dystopian world full of revolution?
The classic dystopian novel 1984 is a must read. Through satire, Orwell
cleverly takes the reader on a journey through a totalitarian society.1984
provides valuable narrative about the trajectory of politics. Especially
in a society of alternative facts, questionable leadership, and questionable
media, Orwell’s novel provides an interesting commentary on
government and its role in our lives. People on all sides of the political
spectrum have found parallels between their ideas and this novel, and I
believe this is a result of it being so fun to read. Even if you’re not a fan of
political or historical novels, the book’s presentation as a fictional story
makes it an interesting and easy to read text.
1984 is a gripping novel that tells the story of a futuristic totalitarian government
that rules its citizens through fear of the all-knowing godlike
figure of Big Brother. Set in the fictitious Oceania, the Party watches its
citizens and controls their minds through the Thought Police. The novel
follows the story of Winston, as he tells the story of the Party and discovers
his feelings toward their rule. Through following his journey, the
reader is forced to consider the possibility of a future world like this one. 
I would recommend this novel to anyone who enjoys dystopian fiction
such as The Hunger Games or Divergent.
Written in 1949 during the anxiety and uncertainty of the Cold War, Orwell’s
seminal piece 1984 was written to envision a dystopian future
that warned of powerful centralized government control over the free
will choice of the individual. Protagonists Winston and Julia live in the
megastate of Oceania, in which all individual expression is repressed
under the all seeing eye of Big Brother. Even nearly three quarters of a
century after its’ original publishing, 1984’s cautionary tale of the threatening
power of the collective over individual choice remains relevant
to this day. As contemporary debate rages on regarding the power of
centralized social media platforms to control increasing aspects of everyday
society, 1984’s central thesis serves as a powerful reminder of
protecting the free will of individual choice.
Animal Farm is a very accurate portrayal of Joseph Stalin’s oppression.
An allegory involving animals, the book by George Orwell, perfectly
personifies the piteous situation of the poor Russians that were ruled
by Stalin. Animals in animal farm represent different people and groups
of people during and after the Russian Revolution. Orwell perfectly portrays
the events of the time period. He starts the book with the animals
revolting and driving out a tyrannical farmer (who represents Czar
Nicholas II) who abuses the farm animals and drinks uncontrollably.
The farmer is driven out and two ambitious pigs seek to lead the farm.
Snowball (who represents Leon Trotsky) makes very innovative plans
that help the whole farm, but selfish Napoleon (who represents Joseph
Stalin) makes plans that help only the pigs. Napoleon drives Snowball
out of the farm and becomes absolute dictator of the farm. Everything
goes downhill from there for the farm.
Burmese Days is a different kind of story then what typically comes to
mind when you think of George Orwell. Instead of a gloomy look into
the future, we the readers get a glimpse into the past. This story focuses
on the lives of U Po Kyin, Dr. Veraswami, and Flory, three men
living amidst the rampant racism in the British dominated India of the
time. The book tackles themes of racism, discrimination, and sexism
- all while maintaining a gripping story that will keep you entertained
throughout.
Transit Maps is a great read for any graphic design or transportation
enthusiast. It covers the transit systems form the world’s biggest cities
to the smallest. While there are a lot of maps in this book, there is also
plenty of historic information on each city. The author does a great job
of explaining the factors in each city that lead the transit to change. He
also expands on how each city uses its transit system uniquely to benefit
the citizens. This book is definitely not a normal read, but it is great
for the time between dense novels.
Wonder is great heartwarming book that takes the viewpoint of multiple
characters. This book will make you laugh and cry, and at same time
will keep you entertained throughout. This book is about the life of a
boy, August Pullman, with a severe facial deformity who’s for the first
time attending school. Like everyone who starts at a new school August
is nervous, but because of his deformity he’s even more worried about
what people will think and what they will say. August overcomes the
struggles of bullying and discrimination, but as the book progresses
August is able to make long lasting friends that see him as more than
just a boy with a deformity. This book takes the viewpoint of multiple
people who are in August’s lives and they each express their own opinions
on what is going on. I recommend this book to anyone that likes a
feel good story and enjoys books that take on multiple views.
In the novel Wonder by R.J. Palacio, a ten year old boy who is born with
a facial deformity has trouble with his life outside of his home. This boy,
August Pullman, has been homeschooled, but in 5th grade he decides
to strive for a new start at a new school. On this heartwarming journey
that August takes, we can see how the world reacts to people who are
different. The characters are wonderfully constructed and we can see
their impact on August from his perspective. From the bullies to the
people who are kind hearted and very welcoming, we are able to see
how much of an effect kindness and acceptance can have on someone’s
life. His school days are full of love and kindness that will make
your heart melt.
Kill Alex Cross is one of the most thrilling action-stories I have read. My 
affinity towards mysteries and stories about espionage first attracted
me to this book sitting on the shelf of the library. James Patterson’s
writing is a classic style that captivated me and spurred me to finish the
book in a single day during spring break. The plot follows the journey
of detective Alex Cross while he tries to solve a conspiracy against the
President of the United States and the kidnapping of POTUS’s two kids.
He accomplishes this task with style a lot like Tom Cruise in Mission
Impossible. The book is very captivating and interesting, and i recommend
this book to anyone who is looking for a fast-paced, high-strung
adventure.
Based on an old Norwegian folk tale, East is about a rural Norwegian
town where there’s an ancient belief that a child’s personality is determined
by the direction they are facing when born. When a poor
mapmaker marries a superstitious woman, they have seven children,
one for each of the cardinal and ordinal directions, excluding north. If a
child is born facing north, they are considered to be uncontrollable, to
bring bad luck and be destined to break their mother’s heart. On top of
that, the couple receives a prophecy that if she has a child to the north,
their child will eventually die, crushed by ice. But when their east born
daughter dies, they decide to have another child to replace her. In an
accidental mix up, their new daughter, Rose, is born facing north. In an
attempt to save Rose from her destiny, her parents lie, saying she was
born to the obedient and flexible east. One day a talking polar bear
shows up at their house to claim Rose’s birthright, taking her with him.
He takes her to his home: an enchanted hidden ice castle where silent
servants wait on Rose hand and foot. She weaves on a loom in a secret
room all day and waits for a stranger to climb into her bed each night.
In this magical fantasy she must break a curse, overcome her fate, and
save the drugged slaves that wander the castle. A beautifully worded
tale, great read, and unique story filled with romance, excitement, and
mystery! A funky Norwegian twist on Beauty and the Beast!
The Dante Club is an absolute must-read for fans of historical fiction. A
series of murders based on Dante’s Inferno turns a group of poets into
impromptu detectives as they race against time to find the killer before
it is too late. At the same time, they must finish their English translation
of Inferno before the public sees the truth behind the horror and condemns
Dante forever without really knowing him.
Written by award-winning clinical psychologist and professor of psychology
Jordan Peterson, 12 Rules of Life outlines simple yet deeply
effective actions that a person can take to make their life happier and
more meaningful. Peterson is a brilliant storyteller who combines mythology,
philosophy, science, and personal anecdotes to explain how
seemingly small, insignificant actions (“stand up straight with your
shoulders straight, ”be precise in your speech”) can have remarkable
effects. This book will teach you more about yourself and the human
mind.
My Sister’s Keeper tells the story of a girl who was born to be a donor for
her sister as she fights for the freedom to live for herself. When Anna
Fitzgerald decides that she wants to be finished feeling as though she
is sick when her sister has a cancer relapse, she decides to sue her
parents for medical emancipation. In this heart wrenching story, Jodi Picoult
explores the theme of what is right and what is wrong through the
difficult decisions the characters make. This book allows you to examine
the story of Anna and her family from many different perspectives.
 diagnosed Boy Trapped Inside His Own Body
Ghost Boy is a moving autobiography of a boy’s experience at home
and in a care center. When diagnosed at the age of 12 with an unknown
degenerative disease, Marin Pistorius quickly falls into a disabled state,
unable to communicate, move, or have any control over himself and
his life. Everyone believes that he is gone, that his mind has degenerated
to a state of nothing, but unbeknownst to the world, Martin is fully
aware and watching. The recounts of Martin’s memories will leave a
permanent mark, haunting you for a long time.
The People of Paper by Salvador Plasencia is unlike any book you’ve
ever read before. The author writes the narrative from the perspective
of a higher being looking down on his home town, which inhabited by
characters he has created. Eventually, the characters realize they are
being watched, and they start to rebel against the author. The tools of
magical realism, a popular writing strategy in Latin American fiction,
shape a story that is real enough to place yourself in the story, but fictional
enough to seem like a fantasy story. The People of Paper is simply
too much to describe in a short book recommendation, and even too 
much to describe in an essay. The story will take your mind on loops:
if you try too hard to understand it, you will be forced to put it down.
Nevertheless, opening your mind and allowing the book to dictate your
imagination makes Plasencia’s book very fun to read. The People of
Paper is a great entry into the genre of magical realism, and may inspire
you to read more magical realism books after it.
Sylvia Plath’s The Bell Jar is a must read. This book deals with the issue of
mental depression. Esther Greenwood, the main character, has mental
depression and does not know how to deal with it. She attempts suicide
a couple of times, but she backs down because she knows that she
could crawl out of the rabbit hole. Her mental depression was caused
by the hectic environment of New York, her demanding mother, and
social norms. This book is wonderful, and you will not regret reading it.
This is a book that dives deep into the truths of mental illness. It follows
Esther Greenwood through her adventures in New York as she studies
journalism as an intern. She feels like she is fading away the further into
summer she goes. I like this book because it shows us some of the perceptions
that are held around mental illness. It does have some extreme
scenes that show the hardships of mental illness. It really pushed me
as a reader and made me think about the intensities involved in mental
illness, which is something you wouldn’t necessarily think about in your
everyday life. I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to
learn more about mental illness and see the struggles of everyday life.
The Omnivore’s Dilemma is an informative book about our health choices.
The book focuses on a man who travels around the country visiting
farms, hunters, and gathers. The author spends a total of one year traveling
and interviewing people and their different ways of consumption.
The book will make you question what you eat and open your mind to
alternatives how to eat healthy and ethically, by using statistics and real
life experiences. Overall it’s a very interesting and fun read.
The Revenant, by Michael Punke, is a book that takes readers on a journey
of grit and vindication. Based on a true story, Hugh Glass is a frontiersman
working everyday with other men like himself to sell beaver 
pelts and chart new territory. After fights with Native Americans and vicious
wildlife, Glass’s party is desperate to return home. Glass’s son, who
is half-white and half-native american, is deeply hated by a man named
John Fitzgerald, an evil, racist, murderer. When Glass is attacked by a
bear and nearing death, he is left in Fitzgerald’s company. After days of
trying to keep Glass alive, Fitzgerald gives up, burying him alive. Glass’s
son retaliates against Fitzgerald, but is quickly killed. Somehow, Glass
is able to survive the burial and sees his son murdered. Even though he
is in mortal condition, Glass promises himself he will find Fitzgerald and
vindicate his son’s death. The passion, perseverance, and the incredible
will of mankind is incredibly moving and riveting in this story, making it
hard to put down. After reading this book and seeing what people had
to endure years ago when first exploring this country, it’s easy to be
grateful for how easy our lives are now in comparison.
Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children brings fantasy into reality.
The book follows a boy who discovers an unfound power. Along with
the other “Peculiars,” they must take down the forces of evil. This book
is an amazing read if you’re into fiction and adventure. It is also a trilogy,
but the first book isn’t the best. The books get better and better as they
go on, adding unexpected twists and turns throughout the journey. I
rate the book 11/10
The Sea of Monsters by Rick Riordan is the second book in the Percy
Jackson series that mixes Greek mythology into a reality the reader can
relate to. In this book, the half-human half-god, or “half-blood” Percy
Jackson, son of Poseidon, has saved the world once before. However,
he’s recently been feeling like he’s lost his touch of being a hero. When
the enchanted borders that keep camp half-blood safe from monsters
start to dissolve from a mysterious poison, Percy has to travel on a journey
with his friends and his new cyclops brother through the Bermuda
Triangle, or what they call the Sea of Monsters. On his journey he will
form a strong relationship with his new cyclops brother that Percy has
trouble being proud of until it may be too late. They will travel find the
cure to save camp half blood, and Percy will return his feeling into his
heroic self.
Naya Rivera’s autobiography is a tell-all about her successes and mistakes
made throughout her life. The Glee cast member leaves nothing 
out as she talks about many subjects other actors are hesitant to talk
about. These include her unspoken feuds with other cast members and
her eating disorder as a teen. Through all of it, she encourages the reader
to keep moving forward without letting their past hold them back. I
would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good inspirational
story.
Are you the type of person who enjoys movies and wants to know more
about some of those classic movies, such as Indiana Jones or Terminator?
If so, then Filmish is the book for you. Filmish is a graphic novel by
Edward Ross that is all about famous movies and how they made it big.
Filmish even includes some insight into how some of those mind-blowing
movie effects were created and some of the struggles movie producers
go through to make sure that their movies make it big. I enjoyed
reading this book because I love movies, and this book gave me more
information about some of my favorites. Filmish is an easy read and
has really nice visuals to go along. This book truly is “A graphic journey
through film.”
This book, which takes place inside a make believe society, follows the
main character Beatris into her adult life, as she has to choose what
she wants to do with her life. The society that she lives in is split into
five factions: Dauntless, Amity, Erudite, Abnegation, and Candor. Under
the guidance of both her parents, society, and herself, Beatris has to
choose one faction, which she will stay in for the rest of her life. This
books takes you through what it is like to live in this type of society,
and what struggles Beatris has to go through in order to stay alive. The
author, Veronica Roth, uses mystery and power to keep the readers on
the edge of their seats in this thrilling novel, Divergent.
This is, by far, my favorite book I have ever read. Patrick Rothfuss’s world
building skills and incredible writing style serve to draw every reader
into the story. The story follows the  journeys of Kvothe, a young boy
whose run-in with a shady magical entity upends his entire world and
sets him on a path of rebellion, education, love, and revenge. The level
of detail in this story breathes a whole sense of life into the characters
and as you listen to the tales of Kvothe the bloodless, the arcane, the
Kingkiller…you will be unable to put the book down.
The Color of Law, by Richard Rothstein dives deep into the origins and
history of housing segregation, exploring how it developed and how
it flourished in the way it did. The book examines governmental policies
from post-World War I all the way to the present era and theorizes
about how these policies segregated America. Rothstein debunks
previous myths about segregation and exposes the injustices that the
government wrought on minority communities. Not only is this book
informative, but it is also enjoyable to read, making it the perfect book
to read when time allows.
Eleanor and Park by Rainbow Rowell follows the lives of two teenage
outsiders, both from very different households, who struggle to navigate
their way through high school. Eleanor, a large redheaded girl who
dresses oddly, meets Park, a half-Korean boy who likes to wear eyeliner,
on the bus one day and the two soon build a quirky, heartwarming,
and oftentimes hilarious romance with one another. Together, they face
the challenges of teenage love, family hardships, and trying to be accepted
in society. Rainbow Rowell’s observational writing style captivates
readers and her use of gender roles throughout the novel sheds
light on a very important issue in today’s world, giving readers insight
on the battles that often come with one’s journey to self-expression. If
you like tear-jerking, heartfelt novels about love and acceptance, this
book is a perfect match for you.
Eleanor and Park is based on two tenth grade students who are polar
opposites. Park comes from a happy, loving family. But Eleanor does
not. She lives with her mother and abusive, alcoholic stepfather. She and
her four siblings live in constant fear of what her step-father, Richie, will
do next. Eleanor has trouble making friends because she is constantly
made fun of for her looks and weight. The book begins with Eleanor and
Park meeting for the first time on a bus to school. From this day, their
relationship blooms and is beautiful, until they have to overcome yet
another problem. Can they do it? Eleanor and Park struggle because
of their difference of backgrounds and privileges in life, but this book
shows the difficulties of a complicated high school relationship. Will Eleanor
and Park be able to overcome their pasts and continue on in their
relationship? Reading this book was  a wonderful experience, and if you
enjoy books that are relatable, dramatic and even a little romantic, this
book is for you!
Eleanor and Park is a novel that explores the struggles of fitting in at
a new high school and the unique relationship between two “outsiders.”
They find sanctuary in one another through their ability to relate
to each other’s adversities in life, within their families and social lives.
Throughout the story, they are able to connect through listening to
music together on the bus and eventually their relationship develops.
As Eleanor’s life continues to become more and more miserable and
challenging for her, Park becomes an escape from it all. This story is a
unique and emotional adventure of overcoming fear, friendship, support,
and more. It shows life through a new lens that allows the reader
to see how aspects of the characters’ lives impact them, and ends with
a curious cliffhanger leaving the reader to imagine their own ending to
the story of Eleanor and Park’s lives.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows by J.K. Rowling is the final book in
the Harry Potter octalogy. It is a page-turning, easy reading book that
encaptures you from the beginning to the end. The book follows Harry,
Ron, and Hermione on their search for “horcruxes”- the keys for destroying
Voldemort. The book is a classic Harry Potter novel, painting vivid
pictures in your head and instilling a feeling of wonder and magic in
your mind. It is the perfect end to the Harry Potter series, and it leaves
you with a feeling of curiosity and awe.
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone is a book that I would recommend
to anybody. It’s a great story with loads of amazing characters who you
grow to love and hate throughout the book. It is action packed enough
to the point that you’re constantly interested and intrigued but there is
still a story behind everything. J.K. Rowling transports the reader into
another world when reading this book. All of the made-up creatures
and magic create a fascinating setting for a novel. Best of all, if you really
enjoyed the first book there are 7 more to work through, so the fun
doesn’t stop after the first read. There are also great movies made after
the books, which are even more enjoyable after reading the novel. 10
out of 10 would recommend.
Although most people have read Harry Potter, you can always read it
again. If you haven’t I would highly recommend it. The story can start off
slow, but if you persevere through the first chapter you will not regret it. 
The story follows a young boy, named Harry, who lives with his abusive
aunt uncle and cousin. On his thirteenth birthday, a mysterious giant
named Hagrid tells him that he is a wizard. This is the start of a seven
year journey where the reader follows Harry and his two best friends
through his years at Hogwarts, the local wizarding school, here is plenty
of action and adventure throughout the novel.
In the wake of the devastating destruction of the cruise ship Persephone,
only three people lived to tell the tale, and two of them are
lying. When she was 14, Frances Mace embarked on a cruise with her
family and her friend, Libby, only for it to be brought to an abrupt end
when everybody was slaughtered. Afloat at sea for seven days after the
destruction, Frances is finally rescued to find that the rest of the world
has been told the Persephone was hit by a Rogue wave and lost at sea.
With no home to return to, Frances adopts the identity of her friend,
Libby, who was killed on the ship. She adopts every habit that Libby
used to have while plotting her revenge. Years later, Frances is finally
ready to avenge the murders of everybody she held dear, even if it
means taking down the boy she once loved. This book is a suspenseful
mystery with a hint of a love story that will make you want to read it in
one sitting.
The Outsiders is a story about a boy name Ponyboy Curtis and his adventures
throughout two weeks. The book takes place in 1965 in Tulsa,
Oklahoma. Ponyboy and his brothers were what people back then
called Greasers. The Greasers were the poor kids that lived in the east
part of town, and their enemies, The Socs for the West.The Socs were
rich snobs that just liked picking on people. This beef between the
gang’s is very serious, In the first scene it shows ponyboy walking home
from a movie when he gets attacked by a group of Socs. They beat him
up and threaten to kill him and almost do. In one of the later scenes
Ponyboy and his brother Johnny get attacked by a group of Socs; they
are outnumbered and ponyboy starts to get beat up the most. His
brother Johnny then panic and kills one of the Soc’s. As you can see this
book is not for the faint of heart, but if you love an action packed teen
book then this is for you.
Holes, by Louis Sachar, is a book about a very unlucky boy named Stanley
Yelnats, who seems to always be in the wrong place at the wrong 
time. Holes is a relaxing, and comedic read. The book follows Stanley
Yelnats and his adventures at a camp for delinquents, while also diving
into his deep, cursed past. While at camp, many mysteries unfold
involving the history of the camp and the camp’s hidden motives. Holes
is an interesting and enjoyable read for all ages.
This book was so beloved by the French people, that when they still
used Francs, it was proudly featured on their 50 Franc bill. Not only that,
the book has been translated into over 250 languages. It has darling
little illustrations and it is a charming tale as it can be read as in depth
as one likes. Its purpose and moral intent are vague, but its impact it
profound: it leaves you feeling something in your heart. It is my favorite
book, and I hope that you enjoy it as well.
Catcher in the Rye by J.D. Salinger follows a rebellious sixteen year old
boy named Holden Caulfield through his life experiences. After being
notified of his expulsion at his boarding prep school, Holden heads off
to Manhattan and carries on his journey. The book tackles subjects of
childhood innocence, growing up, and free will. This book is an easy
read, but evokes important and interesting conversation. I recommend
Catcher in the Rye if you like to read novels that make you question life
and everything around you.
Twenty years ago a star appeared in the sky. This star, widely named
Calamity, caused the people of Earth to develop superpowers. The
public dubbed these special people ‘Epics’ and looked up to them. But
instead of using these superpowers for good, the Epics used them for
evil and destruction. One such villain killed a man who was trying to
stand up for the good of the people. David Charleston, the son of the
man who was killed, grows up an orphan on the streets of ‘Newcago,’
one city that has been taken over by an Epic. Ten years later, David joins
the Reckoners, a group that fights the Epics and intends to bring peace
back to the world. After joining the Reckoners, David must fight against
the odds to defeat the ruler of Newcago and find his dad’s killer.
The Beginning of Everything is a teen coming-of-age novel. The main
character, Ezra Faulkner is the varsity tennis team captain and a stereo-
typical jock, but that was before his girlfriend cheated on him and his
leg was shattered in a car accident. He thinks his life is over until he falls
in love with new girl Cassidy Thorpe. I usually don’t read ‘romance’ novels,
but this book is a perfect mix between friendship, drama, mystery,
humor, and much more. Throughout the book, Ezra learns that new beginnings
can come from tragic endings. I would definitely recommend
this book to all high schoolers.
Four parallel worlds with four parallel Londons; Red, White, Grey, and
Black. Follow Kell, one of the last magically gifted Antaris with the ability
to travel between the worlds, and his antithesis, Delilah Bard, a pickpocket
and thief living in poverty in Grey London. V.E. Schwab writes a
beautiful and intricate book that will keep you on the edge of your seat.
This is the first book in the Shades of Magic trilogy.
A vastly underrated addition to the YA fantasy canon, A Darker Shade of
Magic is the first of three books in the Shades of Magic series. The book
follows Lila Bard, a ruthless, gritty nineteen-year-old, who grew up an
orphan on the streets of 19th century London. Unbeknownst to her,
a thriving magical community; and Grey London, Lila’s London. When
she steals what she thinks is a trinket from Kell, a powerful magician
known as an Antari, and the last of his kind, she accidentally sets in motion
events that will drag her from Grey London to Red London-and beyond.
It’s fast-paced and unexpected. The characters are coarser than
in most YA, but ultimately likeable. Kell and Lila do have a love story, but
it is a secondary plot. In addition, the world- building of Red London and
the role that magic plays in its infrastructure and politics are interesting.
The writing is skillful and the secondary characters are well-developed
and often scene-stealers. You’ll wish there are more than three books.
Ender’s Game is a science fiction thriller placed in the future where
planet Earth is in a hundred year war against an alien race called the
Buggers. In this book, we see the development of the main character,
Ender. This is one of the few books that has kept me glued to the page
(besides the Guinness Book of World Records: 2008 Edition).
Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim by David Sedaris is a collection
of short stories that highlight the interesting childhood of David Sedaris
as he interacts with his siblings, parents and friends from school. His
self memoir touches base on several themes including wealth gaps
amongst the different households in his neighborhood, technology and
age gaps between his parents and his siblings, and short anecdotes
about his large and chaotic family. David Sedaris’s collection of stories
kept me engaged and made me think a lot about how families compare
to others. I highly recommend this book as a summer read!
Love, Lucas is about a girl who loses her older brother, Lucas, to cancer.
Struggling with the loss of her rock and the fighting between her
parents, Oakley has fallen into a dark place. When her mom suggests a
move to California to live with Aunt Jo for the summer, Oakley is reluctant
to leave, but is willing to give the change of scenery a shot. Soon,
Oakley finds comfort in her Aunt Jo’s beach house. It is at this point that
Oakley’s mom gives her something that her brother had left for her before
he died: letters. With each letter Oakley reads, she is challenged to
something new, something that her brothers wants her to do: be a better
person. Just as things are beginning to settle down, Oakley is caught
off guard by a surfer named Carson. He makes Oakley feel again, which
is something she is hesitant towards doing. Using her brother’s letters
as guidance, Oakley is able to start a new chapter in her life and hopefully
feel truly happy again.
The book Out of the Easy by Ruta Sepetys, offers something to anyone
that reads it, as it provides mystery and murder, while still to alluding to
the interesting realities of life in the 1950s. A young girl, with the reputation
as the prostitute’s daughter in New Orleans, dreams of escaping
to a life far away, as she wants to achieve more than what she thinks
the New Orleans can offer her. A mysterious death in her neighborhood
leaves her torn between her ambitions and her curiosities. The New Orleans
continues to lure her deeper, as temptation keeps her searching
for the answers. This book offers a different perspective to the reader,
as I had personally never thought about the honest life of a prostitute.
If you like historical fiction, this is perfect for you! Four different individuals
share their stories of their struggles through World War II, and 
Sepetys beautifully incorporates heart wrenching tales with much
needed hope. Each narrative gives the reader a look into the world of
several refugees, from Germany and Poland, as well as unsettling journal
entries from a young Nazi. The characters journey across the unforgiving
barren land, hoping to find themselves on a ship to America. This
book, although sad, is my favorite story, and the most powerful piece of
writing I have read in a long time.
I recommend Dr. Seuss’s classic, One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish.
The novel explores themes of individuality while still portraying that everybody
wants to fit in and belong. Although the book is an enjoyable
short read, the underlying meaning of the story is more important than
its length. If you adore a graphic novel with nuanced themes that take
thought to discover, I urge you to read One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue
Fish.
I read this book over spring break, and it was the perfect beach read.
The narrator is a very strong and powerful woman who tells her story of
growing up with a father who’s the leader of a drug cartel and how she’s
raised to take over the family business. The story alternates between
her flashbacks of growing up in this dingy town being the daughter of
the county’s scariest man and current day how certain events lead her
to being the leader of the cartel. Harley has a plan for the family business
and the safety of the town and isn’t afraid to step up to the men
who don’t think she’s got what it takes.
Challenger Deep is a gripping story about a teenage boy dealing with
schizophrenia. The story is told in a very unique way, with some chapters
taking place in the real world, while others take place in his head.
These two worlds blur as the story progresses, creating unforgettable
characters along the way. It is a beautiful coming of age story that explores
mental illness in a very real way, as the author’s son also suffered
from schizophrenia. The message the book tells and the moments it
creates are both heartbreaking and hopeful, and stay with the reader
long after the final page.
In the not so distant future, America is sprung into chaos during the 
Second Civil War when both sides come to a final agreement: the Bill
of Life. The bill states that after the age of thirteen, a child could be unwound,
meaning every organ, bone, and muscle in their body would be
disconnected from the child and used to benefit people who have potential
to be something great. Unwinding means slipping into a dormant
state while your body is used for the greater good, not death. When the
troubled main character Connor Lassiter learns that his parents have
secretly signed the order for his unwinding, he decided to run away and
goes on a wild adventure running from the law, meeting new people,
and trying to survive until eighteen, when he can finally be free again.
Keep reading to find out if Connor stays whole, or can’t escape his fate
of being unwound! This book is very interesting and part of a series, so
if you enjoy this book I highly recommend that you follow Connor from
birthday to birthday.
House of Spies is a fictional novel, following the search by intelligence
agencies for the world’s most infamous terrorist, Saladin. Two recent
terrorist attacks on British and American soil spurs on the hunt for this
man, who has a network that extends all around the world. It is up to Gabriel
Allon, spy and vintage art restorer, to track down Saladin through
the streets of London, to the doorstep of one of the richest men in the
world, Jean-Luc Martel . With the help of Gabriel Allon, Jean-Luc Martel
and his wife will aid in the capture of the world’s most notorious terrorists.
A tale of deception and twists, House of Spies will have you unable
to put it down.
This book is all about statistics, predictions, and big data. It delves into
why we’re so good at predicting the weather or the future value of a
baseball player, but we fail when it comes to predicting earthquakes or
economic growth. The Signal and the Noise is a very interesting read because
of the breadth of topics that it covers, giving a detailed treatment
of each one. The topics range from economics and politics, to the hard
sciences, and even sports and gambling. Within each of these topics
it reinforces the idea that no amount of data can make up for a lack of
fundamental understanding, as well as lending helpful, everyday tips
relating to each field. It left me feeling more confident in my ability to
reason about predictions, and more skeptical of the statistics that get
carelessly thrown around in everyday life.
This book is a collection of poems written by Shel Silverstein. This is a
fun book to just pick up and flip to a random page and read the poem
that appears. The poems in this book are short, a page at max. They
are outrageous and funny and really exciting to read. This collection
of poems can be read one at a time as you are falling asleep or just sit
down and get absorbed in the language and excitement of the poems.
If you’re looking for a book that deviates from the normal novel standards,
How To Be a Bawse is an inspiring book filled with great life lessons
and stories. As stated in the title, the world known Youtuber, Lilly
Singh (a.k.a Superwoman), talks about her life story and how she became
a “bawse.” Each chapter is filled with a different topic or teaching.
Some of these include time-management, confidence, risk-taking,
goal-setting and so much more. Through her book she teaches
people not to just survive life, but to conquer it. Filled with funny and
thought-provoking stories, this book is sure to make you empathize and
learn from Lilly Singh. She went from having nothing to living her dream
and becoming an extremely successful person. If you’re looking for a
book to help guide you through life, or simply have a light yet interesting
read, this is the book for you. After reading it you’ll re-enter the world
as a new and improved person; and, of course, as a “bawse.”
This book is an interesting read for any aspiring golfers of any age. It
explores an intricate stance on how the game should be practiced and
played. The book looks past technique in golf, and it focuses on aspects
of the game that are mental. It takes an approach to the mental game
that is easy to understand, yet it strengthens it to an extent in which no
other practice can do. It focuses on the process of playing golf.
Prep by Curtis Sittenfeld is the story of a teenage girl and her journey
throughout high school at a college prep boarding school. Each chapter
is a new part of her high school career. In the beginning, she struggles
to blend in and make friends at her new school. It is a coming of age
story that demonstrates how her diverse background gets in the way
of bonding with her classmates. I truly enjoyed the book and I would
highly recommend reading it.
Prep is an American novel about a young girl going through high school.
Her name is Lee, and she attends a boarding school. I would recommend
this book to high school students due to the fact that it is so relatable.
It handles issues of friendships, relationships, wealth and school.
This book is truly a story about growth. The main character Lee starts
the book in freshman year and progresses until graduation. Each year
has unique problems. I rate this book an 8/10 due to its readability and
character growth.
Prep by Curtis Sittenfeld is a coming of age story about the main character
Lee. While she has some qualities that make the reader embarrassed
for her, in the end, we have all been in her shoes. Her navigation
of Ault, a private boarding school, is filled with many relationships and
lessons for Lee and the reader. The challenges she faces are relatable
to almost everyone, friend issues, grades, and so on. I recommend this
book for seniors and juniors who have adjusted to the life of high school
but can still relate to the awkwardness of being an underclassman.
The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks is a very well written and engaging
nonfiction novel. It is a perfect book for anyone who is interested in science
because it gives specific information on the growth and distribution
of the infamous He-La cells. It also follows the story of the family
of Henrietta and discusses many ethical scientific issues regarding race
and what it truly means to get medical permission. If you love science
or if you just love a really engaging story, this is the book for you!
How would you feel if your were a graphic designer who happened to
stumble upon a job in a very strange, almost magical bookshop with
a cult-like following? Well, that’s exactly what happened to Clay, the
main character in Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore, by Robin Sloan.
This novel is great for any book lover and computer nerd alike! The novel
has a complex and beautiful plot, with the intrinsic values of a science
fiction and a fantasy novel rolled into one. It’s also a very quick read; I
read it in 24 hours, ironic to the title. I highly recommend this book, as
well as reading Ajax Penumbra 1969, giving you an even greater look
into this wonderful world.
This book is a semi-autobiographical novel written by Betty Smith in
1943. The main character is a young girl named Francis Nolan who is
struggling with growing up in Brooklyn, New York. The book’s main
themes are poverty, drinking problems with the dad, death, struggling
to be in elementary, middle and college school, and religion. A Tree
Grows In Brooklyn explores all of these topics and helps you see how
life was during the first two decades of the 20th century. As Francie
grows older, she gets more responsibility and more freedom to explore
her identity. Men ask to marry her, but she justs wants to be successful.
During her adult life, World War II starts and we can see the new technology
and how the people experience it.
I would recommend A Series of Unfortunate Events by Lemony Snicket.
This series is comprised of 13 relatively short books each centered
around an unfortunate event that the Baudelaire children have to endure.
My favorite part of this series is the way in which Lemony Snicket
narrates the story with humor and a clear voice. The first book in this
series is titled “The Bad Beginning.”
A Walk to Remember is a classic love story that makes you smile with joy
activities, somehow they both find themselves in the senior play together.
After spending long hours and days together, they realize they
are not so different from each other as they think they are and they both
start to increasingly open their heart. It is a short novel and super easy
plane or by the pool this summer!
Milkweed tells the story of a homeless Polish boy in the middle of a
Nazi-controlled Warsaw recounting his experiences in the Holocaust.
In a time where one’s identity can be a matter of life and death, the
unnamed storyteller attempts to navigate his way through the Jewish
ghetto, all the while searching for who he is. This novel not only explores
life in Nazi Germany, but the dangers and experiences of living
in the Warsaw Ghetto. This novel is great for anyone that enjoys an action-packed
coming-of-age story, as well as someone who wants to 
learn the horrors of the Jewish ghettos. By using elements of real-life
as well as fiction, the author manages to keep the reader in suspense
for the entire novel. Milkweed, which I originally read in 6th grade, is
to this day one of my favorite books of all time. Anyone that is looking
to pick up a book and not put it down should read Milkweed, a tale of
heartbreak, hope and survival during the Holocaust.
The Art of Racing in the Rain follows the perspective of a loving dog,
Enzo, recounting his life as he eventually grows old. From his birth, he
quickly becomes the lifelong companion of Denny, whose lifelong pursuit
is to run competitively. As he watches a family grow together and
split apart, he learns more and more about the perplexing  nature of
humans. Stein’s book had me continuously wondering and questioning
even the most mundane of subjects in life. Asking questions that
range from stuffed animals to reincarnation, this book had me engaged,
puzzled, and filled with wonder all at the same time. I’d recommend
this book to anyone who loves dogs and wants a book that teaches us
about loss, change, and the resilience of the human spirit.
For any reader interested in subtle magic folded into an intensely real
world, this book is that. The book centers around three siblings who
struggle with the world handed down to them and the strange magic
that their family is known for. The descriptions are vivid and authentic,
and it’s difficult not to relate to each character as they find their way
through the twists and turns of the novel. Though the concept of the
introspection among the characters, and through them encourages
the reader as well to look inside and ask many of the same questions
the characters have to ask themselves. The book explores the idea that
flawed. The reader ends the book with a grasp on each character as a
human being, and finds comfort as each character finds their way out of
the complex situation they unintentionally placed themselves in.
The Raven Boys, is the first of four in the series The Raven Cycle. Blue
Sargent has been told for as long as she can remember that she will
kill her true love. However, this book is not your typical young adult 
romance novel. The characters felt as if they could be real people and
were actually very likable. Stiefvater’s use of imagery and writing makes
the mystical town of Henrietta come to life. If you enjoy novels about
friendship and just a touch of the supernatural, then you will love The
Raven Boys, and the rest of the series.
I never thought I would read a fiction book that would change my eating
feel of this book. In The Scorpio Races Maggie Stiefvater expertly crafts
a personal, yet entirely alien book about the traditions and culture of a
foreign Island. I believe everyone who is literate should read this amazing,
fast-paced and personal book.
The Joy of X is a brilliant exploration of mathematics, unlike anything
taught in a traditional classroom setting. It aims to give an intuitive sense
of seemingly simple concepts, starting with the elementary ideas of
addition and multiplication and leading up to complex unsolved mathematical
theories. The writing style works to extract the exhausting,
boring, or even tedious work experienced in a math class, leaving only
the raw underlying theory. Each and every chapter can be read in a
stand-alone format without a need for an in depth understanding of
mathematics or even any content from the previous chapters. Overall,
the book takes complex theories in mathematics, sifts out the boring
and unattractive aspects, leaving only the product of interest, engaging
the reader’s curiosity to dive deeper into mathematics.
Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore is a compelling mystery that
weaves into the trauma of the main character. This book was written by
a Colorado native and includes little bits and pieces that Colorado residents
will love. The novel explores the main character’s struggle to find
her friend’s suicide notes and discovers incredible secrets about her
community. The intriguing twists, connections and witty writing creates
an incredibly fun and interesting read.  
 Secrets of the Universe
The story of Aristotle Mendoza and Dante Quintana’s struggle to figure 
out how they fit into society as boys is impossible to set down. Aristotle
and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe by Benjamin Alire Sáenz
is a coming of age novel that explores acceptance and realization of
one’s true self. There are few topics that it does not cover, from coming
out to saving birds. The desert sky is the background, love is the narrator,
and the human mind is the story.
If you ever read graphic novels, I would recommend This One Summer
by Mariko and Jillian Tamaki. Being a teenager, I find myself wandering
off in to my own thoughts, often wondering about the small things in
life. But when I read this book, I could relate on a huge level to how
being confused was ok. The main character, Rose, takes a trip every
summer to Awago, a small town along the beach. Also, every year is
the same. She visits her friend, Windy, hangs out with her Grandma,
goes to the beach and has fun. But this one summer, everything seems
weird and different. So, she has to figure what has been going on and
she comes understand the sudden changes that have been affecting
her life. What I like most about the novel is that it explores the hardships
adolescents face and how they slowly lose their innocence and understand
the real world. While it does contain mature language and adult
references, I think it is important at this age to understand why the author
has included certain themes. Most importantly, I could empathize
with the storyline. I feel that this book would suit a variety of people with
different tastes and it is a good book to read to relax and enjoy.
Chances are, if you’re human, you have grand dreams of some kind,
dreams that are unfortunately utterly impossible. Strange the Dreamer
narrates the realization of one such dream. Poetic, thoughtful, adventurous,
and magical, this book is the perfect late-night read! It is
also completely its own story, with unique characters and just the right
amount of, well, strangeness. Pick up this book. Your imagination won’t
be disappointed.
The Hate U Give is a timely, funny, and well-written novel about Starr
Carter, an African-American girl who lives two lives, one in her preppy
and privileged private high school, and the other in a harsh neighborhood.
She has seen everything from police brutality to gang violence
and everything in between in her neighborhood, but she learns valuable
lessons from her experiences. After witnessing the death of her 
friend at the hands of a cop, all hell breaks loose but Starr stays strong
and becomes drawn to activism. The novel does a great job of not victimizing
Starr, instead making her a strong leader. I recommend this
novel a lot as it is extremely timely and eye opening.
The Hate U Give follows the story of 16-year-old Starr Carter, an African
American girl who witnesses the shooting of her childhood best friend
by a police officer on their way home from a party. Unarmed and innocent,
her friend’s death sparks national controversy. As the sole witness
of the incident, Starr is drawn to act, aiming to reveal the truth about
her friend’s murder, much to the dismay of the local police department.
While working to combat a complacent and indifferent police force,
Starr also struggles to navigate her life split between her poor black
community and her privileged private school. The story explores the
tragic, yet pervasive issue of police brutality in our society today from
the perspective of a character who lived through it.
The Hate U Give was a bestselling book for a reason; it is thoughtful,
insightful, and encourages the reader to look at the world through a
different perspective. By telling the story of something as serious and
tragic as police brutality in an accessible, interesting way, Thomas
seeks to remove some of the apathy that often takes place with issues
that a large contingent of America does not want to understand. The
Hate U Give serves as a powerful reminder that while for some people,
political events sometimes seem isolated or far away, they are closer
than we think, and the narrative that we help shape about them can affect
our friends, acquaintances, and ourselves, and change the country
that we live in. I would recommend this book for anyone who is interested
in learning about their role in racial relations in the United States,
or anyone that would like to read a book that will help them become a
better citizen and person.
Because You’ll Never Meet Me is the story of two teenage penpals who
could not be any more different–or similar. While one of the young men
is a refined and intelligent German, the other is a nonchalant, whiney
American with severe cabin fever. They both, however, share one thing
in common: a shared life struggle. The German boy is blind and has to
use echolocation to make his way around, while the American has a
rare disease that makes him allergic to electricity, meaning he has to 
live secluded from most other people. The kicker: due to their conditions,
they’ll never be able to meet each other. Told in the form of letters
written by both young men to each other, this book is an entertaining
and heartwarming quick read that any high schooler could enjoy.
If you want a book filled with trolls, magic, dwarves, hobbits and wizards,
this is the book for you. The Fellowship of the Ring is the first book
in a three book series, however it so thrilling that it could be a stand
alone book itself. The book ties together the perfect mix of adventure
and danger. The main character, a hobbit named Frodo, lives in a hole in
the ground when his father bestows to him a ring with magical powers,
and Frodo’s job is to destroy it so it doesn’t get into the wrong hands.
While I read this book I always felt that the story kept dragging you in;
you think nothing else is going to happen, then it happens, whether
running into dead kings on horses or into man eating trolls, you won’t
be able to put this book down no matter how hard you try. However, if
you want a little background on the Lord of the Rings series, I would
recommend reading The Hobbit, it too is a fantastic read that provides a
little knowledge about what’s going on.
One of my favorite books I have ever read over the summer was J.R.R.
Tolkien’s The Fellowship of the Ring, the first of the Lord of the Rings
trilogy. The book takes place years after The Hobbit concludes. It follows
the story of the young nephew of the previous book’s protagonist
named Frodo. He is tasked with returning a cursed ring that had been
stolen by his uncle years ago. He is joined in his quest by several of his
hobbit companions, and later he is aided by humans: elves, dwarves,
and even a wizard. The story follows Frodo and his comrades as they
attempt to destroy the cursed ring, and combat a growing evil in their
land. This book is extremely well written and well paced. It will keep
even the most reluctant of readers engaged and is an amazing book to
take on over the summer.
Written by the widely esteemed author J.R.R. Tolkien, The Fellowship
of the Ring begins the story of a young hobbit named Frodo Baggins
and his friends (including other hobbits, elves, men, and dwarves) on
their quest to destroy Middle Earth’s greatest evil. The Ring of Power
has been passed on to young Frodo, who has no idea about its great
capability and corrupting spirit, and terrible creatures of darkness from 
the evil land of Mordor have begun to hunt him down. With the help of
Gandalf the Grey (a wizard), Sam Gamgee, and two other hobbit friends,
he travels to the elf haven of Rivendell where their quest truly begins.
Tolkien beautifully continues the story of The Hobbit with glimmering
detail, wonderful language, and a twisting plot that will have you feeling
as if you were standing right there alongside Frodo and his companions.
Although it may be at times hard to read, the characters make up
for it in this iconic piece of fantasy.
J.R.R. Tolkien’s The Hobbit is a great read for those who love journey and
adventure. In this wonderfully engaging piece, The Hobbit explores the
conflict of inaction and complacency versus action and altruism. This
creates tension between characters which keeps the reader engaged
and anxious to find out what happens next. Additionally, the theme of
character is intertwined in the book by exploring the challenge of doing
what is right instead of what is easy, which pairs perfectly with the
conflict of the book. Through the perspective of a hobbit named Bilbo
Baggins, the reader embarks on a quest with him and his company of
dwarves to reclaim their homeland from Smaug the dragon. Bilbo and
his company have many chances to give up and turn back, but they
persist. While there are some slow parts spread intermittently throughout
the book, they are made up for by the extremely fast-paced action
scenes and rich vocabulary. If you are looking for an action, fantasy, or
adventure book, The Hobbit is for you.
The Hobbit is a great and easy summer read. It is a perfect book to
read while lounging in the hot sun. The book starts out at the hobbit’s
house. Twelve dwarves  come knocking on his door looking for his help
on what will be and unbelievable journey. The dwarfs will fight side by
side with Bilbo Baggins. They fight dragons and do other crazy stunts. I
liked the book mostly because it was just fun to read. This brilliant book
will make anyone’s imagination race. Whether its traveling through the
forest by foot or racing around the planes with horses, there is never a
dull moment. This book is one of my favorites!
The Hobbit is a book full of adventure, heroes, songs and laughter. This
book has fantastic imagery and many beautiful landscapes including
the Shire the Hobbits inhabit. This is a home that is somewhere in England
but near the beginning is left by Bilbo. In this story he is the reluc-
tant hero who encounters Dwarves, Elves, Goblins, Eagles, and Wizards
as he passes through Rivendell, the Misty Mountains and Mirkwood on
their way to the Lonely Mountain in order to take back a precious treasure
that has been stolen by a huge dragon that goes by the name of
Smaug. I recommend this book to any student that loves exploration
and adventure. It is always a timeless classic for all ages.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer is an exciting prequel to the Adventures
of Huckleberry Finn, this book is from the point of view of Tom rather
than Huck. One night Tom and Huck go to a graveyard and witness a
murder committed by Injun Joe. While looking for treasure one day they
see Injun Joe with a box of gold. This story includes action, drama, and
adventure. By being from Tom’s point of view the reader gets a great
look into his life that helps give insight and context into his actions in
Huck Finn. This book is an incredible exciting read filled with lots of action,
this book is never dull and never gets boring and I would strongly
recommend it.
Welcome to the Universe’s goal is to cover everything in our known universe.
It covers everything from the number zero, to the number of particles
in our known universe just in the first 20 pages. Tyson utilizes a
style of language that is humorous and easy to understand while still
teaching about the most complex topics in our universe. It is an incredibly
easy read and still taught me more than any science textbook has
been able to. I highly recommend this book if you have no previous
knowledge in physics and astrophysics, but are looking for someplace
to start.
The Running Dream by Wendelin Van Draanen is an emotional story
about a teenage girl named Jessica who loses her leg in a car accident.
Jessica was a track star and, because of the loss of her leg, feels
as though she has lost her identity. Not only do her dreams of running
seem to have disappeared, so has her spirit. The story follows Jessica
as she struggles to learn to walk with a prosthetic leg. Jessica also becomes
friends with a classmate named Rosa who has cerebral palsy.
The unlikely friendship helps Jessica view the world with a new perspective.
Together the two friends fight to achieve their dreams. The
Running Dream is a touching, inspiring story, and I would recommend it
to anyone who enjoys rooting for the underdog!
In the novel The Running Dream, Jessica injures and loses her leg in
a car accident which renders her permanently unable to walk again.
Through the immense love from her family and teammates and by
meeting Rosa, a girl with Cerebral Palsy, Jessica finds a way to persevere
and learn selflessness in the hopes of being able to run again. This
novel will encourage you to examine your own life and privileges and
inspire you to see how even those who are disabled can do anything
when they have the right people supporting them.  
The Bible is one of the most popular books in the world. It was written
in the 6th century, B.C. which sometimes makes it hard to understand.
However, the general lessons that are presented in the bible
are very valuable. A common misconception is that if you aren’t
Christian, you will not understand the Bible. But, you don’t have to
be religious to dive into a different culture and period of time. I recommend
this book because I respect someone who can sit down
and read a type of literature that is outside of their box and comfort
zone. So the next time you see a Bible in your hotel room, read a passage
and realize the amazing morals and lessons that are before you.
Gang Leader For A Day is the best non-fiction book I have ever read.
This book is written by Sudhir Venkatesh about his experience as a
graduate student at the University of Chicago. For his sociology class,
Sudhir decides to survey black people in the projects of Chicago on
their economic status. But as he finds the tenants’ unwillingness to participate,
he takes an alternative method to learning about the projects
by becoming a member of a gang called the “Black Kings.” Sudhir’s
thrilling story is about his experience shadowing J.T., the leader of the
Black Kings, and learning all about the gang’s hierarchy and how they
handle their business while maintaining a good relationship with the
community.
Slaughterhouse Five by Kurt Vonnegut is a fictional book based upon
the author’s experience as a prisoner of war during the fire-bombing of
Dresden. Dresden was a city previously untouched by World War II, occupied
almost entirely by American prisoners of war and German hospi-
tals filled with wounded soldiers. As an untouched city, the American Air
Force decided it would be the perfect place to try out the effectiveness
of a new type of warfare: high altitude fire-bombing. The results were
devastating: Dresden went from one of the most beautiful cities in Europe
to ash and rubble. This destruction of beauty is a common theme
throughout the book, as the protagonist Billy Pilgrim struggles with
the notion and attempts to rationalize the war and his life through any
means necessary. While historical fiction, Slaughterhouse Five is in many
ways one of the truest portrayals of what war is like on a psychological
level and invokes thought on the subjects of violence and imagination.
In this book Kurt Vonnegut is able to create an environment full of mythicality
and wonder. Through setting he is able to develop a certain mood
that entices the reader to continue reading. Vonnegut is also able to create
a powerful dynamic between the reader and the characters in which
the reader doesn’t really like the characters, but they do not hope for their
failure. This makes for an interesting reading experience, which I would
recommend to anyone in search of a mind bending science fiction novel.
 History of Infinity
Have you ever thought about the concept of infinity? Of what infinity
really is or what that word means? Whether you have been fascinated
by the concept of infinity or you are simply looking for a satirical,
surprisingly relatable read, Everything and More is the book for you.
The book delves into the history of mathematics and focuses on the
work of mathematicians who advanced our understanding of infinity,
the primary being Georg Cantor. Do not fear: this novel is not a dense,
esoteric book of mathematical theory but rather a quick, hilarious, and
informative read that connects math to our daily existential musings.  
We All Looked Up is a classical high school story with a huge twist. The
book emphasizes the cliqueness of highschool by writing chapters from
different perspectives of the multiple characters that fall in a variety of
social groups. The typical problems of the characters involve struggles
with parents, friends, school, and other teenage pressures. The thing
that makes this novel so unique is for the majority of the story an asteroid
is coming towards earth, and it is a complete toss up whether or not
it will hit. There are a multitude of reactions to this, involving riots, suicides,
and complete normality. Because there is both the chance that 
the giant space rock could hit earth or not, it causes people to either live
like there is no tomorrow or continue on living their average high school
life. The classic social groups start to dissolve, and the real values of
life begin to emerge as all the students bond over a common fear of
destruction and the same hope of a future life. This coming of age story
helps put high school problems in perspective and causes the reader
to think about how he/she would react in a similar situation. We All
Looked Up is a well written story that I would recommend to every high
schooler looking for a good coming of age book that is easily relatable.
The Glass Castle is a memoir by a woman named Jeannette Walls, documenting
her turbulent childhood and life with her siblings and parents.
Her childhood was anything but ordinary, and her interactions with her
father, Rex Walls, allow the reader to decide for themselves what kind
of father Rex was to her. Her stories and experiences from her childhood
shaped her life in a way that no one would ever expect, but her
ability to move past obstacles in her life is truly inspiring. It is a very
moving read, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for an inspirational
non-fiction book.
The Glass Castle, by Jeannette Walls, is a novel that not only sparks
the interest of young readers who are struggling through their identity
within or outside of their own families, but it also intrigues adult readers,
who read this novel as an opportunity to reflect on their own lives--their
struggles as well as their accomplishments. The Glass Castle recounts
the unorthodox, impoverished childhood of four children growing up in
a household that defies all the stereotypes of family life. In the start of
this novel, Walls contrasts the idealistic approach of many other novels
that make the reader optimistic about the world. Rather, this novel
takes on a realistic approach that centers the readers to the truth of not
only the life of the Walls family, but also to the truth of every reader’s
life. However, as the novel progresses and there is character and plot
development, readers are able to see that regardless of the challenges
that families or individuals face, that should not discourage one from
setting and achieving goals, hopes, and dreams.
If you are looking to find a book that teaches you about how to be a
good parent, then the memoir, The Glass Castle is not for you. The
memoir is told through the words of Jeanette Walls, a young girl who 
is a victim of growing up in a household of instability. Her family lives
in poverty and is constantly on the move from the FBI. Her father, Rex,
was once her hero, but as she reaches adolescence she begins to understand
the destructive nature Rex taints their family with. Jeanette, a
victim of abuse and sexual assault, learns to become an independent
woman and the primary provider for her family. She dreams of escaping
the disarray of her family life to create a life on her own, completely
separated from the one she grew up in. I recommend this book because
it is inspired by true events and really gives a look into a life of a
family living in poverty.
Bad Girls with Perfect Faces is an amazing book. It has amazing characters
who are well developed and seem so real in every emotion they
feel. this is the first book i have been so invested in that I stayed up
one night and read the entire thing. Each character dealing with unique
feelings that I haven’t, as a reader, ever seen a book put so much reality
into them. Especially since you get the book in the different perspectives
of each character. I highly recommend this book to anyone who
wants a book you don’t want to put down and loves suspense thrillers
that take you all the way to the end.
Shaken from the recent news of her ex-best friend’s suicide, June
becomes determined to find out what really happened. Delia, June’s
ex-best friend, burned herself to death, but June can’t believe that
someone she thought she knew so well would do something so out of
character. June sets out to find the truth and she finds herself in a web
of secrets and lies. The title of this book captured my attention and I
was fascinated until the last page. With every page, another layer is
added onto the mystery and little by little, the truth is revealed. This is
an easy read and is definitely the book for someone looking for a mystery
that never seems to end.
Weir’s better known book, The Martian, was a worldwide hit, mixing sci
fi with very realistic possibilities for the future of space travel. Artemis
builds off this model, taking it a step farther than traveling to Mars. The
story follows protagonist Jazz Bashara, a smuggler in Artemis, the first
and only colony on the moon. Artemis is a playground for the wealthy
of Earth who vacation on the moon because they can. But what’s below
the touristy surface is an underworld of backhand deals and smuggling 
that makes the moon colony function the way it does. Jazz is part of this
system until she gets caught up in a turf war between two corporate giants
that operate off the moon. If you enjoy incredible worlds of science
fiction where the possibilities seem endless, this is the book for you. It
mixes crime with realistic equipment as you follow Jazz, attempting to
break free of the underworld and to a better life. Welcome to Artemis,
and I hope you enjoy your stay on the moon.
The Martian is one of my favorite books. It is about Mark Watney, an
astronaut and botanist in 2035 who gets sent to Mars for a mission. He
gets left behind on Mars after a storm and is presumed to be dead. He
survives and manages to make contact again with Earth. Mark Watney
improvises with the few things left behind by his crew members and
tries to stay alive until he can be rescued. He has to overcome many
challenges and hurdles throughout the book and each page made me
want to read more and more. I enjoyed this book since it was quite realistic
compared to many science fiction books that I have read. The
techniques he used to survive are all possible in real life. it is clear how
much time was spent on the science aspect of this book. I recommend
this book since it is able to stay fast paced and interesting even though
it is about one man living alone on an empty planet.
The Martian is a thrilling book that combines elements of science fiction
with some comedy and even a sort of lonely, sad story. The storyline
is about a mission gone wrong in which a determined astronaut works
his way through the challenges of being alone and not having nearly
enough resources to last him until the next ship arrives. Through a powerful
story of perseverance and positivity, this book that is also a great
movie is entertaining and captivating to most readers.
The Martian by Andy Weir is an incredibly clever novel that integrates
elements of science, comedy, adventure, and suspense to create an
exhilarating trip to Mars. Mark Watney and his crew of Johannsen, Martinez,
Lewis, Beck, and Vogal live in a habitat on Mars until a sandstorm
leaves Mark on the desolate planet by himself, while the others escaped
on the ship. Mark is tasked to use his knowledge of botany and
engineering in order to survive long enough to come back to Earth.
This book is for anybody who loves science, as the scientific aspect of
the book is incredibly accurate, while also entertaining the reader with 
an incredibly funny and witty character in Mark Watney. As you follow
Mark Watney’s time on Mars, it is easy to fall in love with this character,
and I found myself on the edge of my seat often throughout the book. I
would highly recommend that anyone read this book as it is not just for
science lovers, or space fanatics. The comedy and suspense can draw
anyone in, and it should be an enjoyable read for anyone who wants to
get lost in a fantastic book.
Andy Weir’s science fiction novel, The Martian, is an intriguing story
about astronaut Mark Watney who becomes abandoned on Mars and
must figure out a way to survive. Following Watney every step through
his journey, readers get to experience the frustration of being alone on
another planet without any resources, but also the excitement when he
begins to improvise and figure out how to obtain basic necessities of
life. As well as this, Weir’s style of writing throughout the novel is easy
to read and includes some humor from time to time during Watney’s
experience on Mars. This book gained recognition following the release
of an Oscar-nominated adaptation of the story and certainly did not disappoint
my experience of reading it. I would recommend this novel to
anyone who is looking for science fiction that is entertaining, suspenseful,
and follows an interesting plot line.
When my dad recommended this book to me for Spring Break, I was
apprehensive about reading a historical novel, due to their often boring
nature. However, I was pleasantly surprised by The Underground
Railroad, as its thrilling chases and clever plot covered up any hints of
boredom the underlying message threatened to expose. After finishing
the novel I found myself not only entertained, but enlightened and
empathetic around the journeys thousands of slaves made to escape
their imprisonment. I would highly recommend reading this book for
any occasion, as it is sure to captivate any reader.
Last year, during our WW2 unit, we read the book Night. It is an autobiography
about a boy struggling to survive in a German concentration
camp. He loses his home, his family, and at times even himself as he is
swept into the physical and mental torture the Nazis placed upon the
Jews. The boy becomes a man soon after arriving in camp with an injured
father and himself to look after, feed, and most importantly keep
alive. It was a really powerful book that will make you feel the pain that 
so many Jews felt, from a gated community, to the long train ride, to the
dreadful camp and all its horrors, and finally to freedom. As the author
recounts this time in his life, his experience moves you to empathize
with him and so many others who lived and died in the German concentration
camps of WW2.
This is novel is true story about a boy who went through multiple Jewish
concentration camps in World War II. The novel really captures what it
was like to be in a concentration camp and brings to light how horrible
they really were. In the book he loses many people who are close to
him due to random selection. He talks about the little amount of food
that they were given and how people would fight over bread and soup.
He talks about the horrible living conditions of their blocks and how
there were 6–8 people in a bed. He also talks about how they were
forced to walk miles and miles and were even used to test gases and
chemicals during the war. The novel is really gut wrenching and really
brings into perspective the cruelness of what happened in German
concentration camps.
The graphic novel Boxer is one of my favorite books ever. It is a realistic
work of fiction, and it really dives deep into the experience of a boy who
becomes an influential leader in the famous Boxer Rebellion in China
during the early 20th century. The book talks about the passion of the
fighters and touches on the experiences of the people in China, a side
of the story that we do not get to see very often. The book illustrates
the experiences of the main characters and why they believe in the
cause they are fighting for. If you don’t really want to read a very indepth
book, try this. The combination of the colorful artwork, and comic
style is very interesting and really grabbed my attention. The book
ends on a cliff hanger, and if you want to continue to story read Saints, a
continuation of Boxers, but from the perspective of a Chinese Christian
during the rebellion.
Everything, Everything is a great summer read. Maddy, the main character,
struggles with SCID and is forced to stay within the walls of her
house. Throughout the book, the reader is able to go along with Maddy
as she grows into a young women. With love, courage and aspiration
Maddy is able to find herself. The novel will keep you wanting
more as you wonder what it would be like to be in her shoes. I would 
highly recommend this book for anyone who is looking for a dramatic,
heart-warming, intriguing story to read.
Everything, Everything is a book about a teenage girl named Madeline
who has lived with a disease a majority of her life, that has kept her from
going outside. Madeline is then intrigued when a new family moves
in next door, one member of that family being a boy her age who she
falls in love with. The reader follows the struggles Madeline faces such
as arguments with her mom, dealing with the death of her father and
brother, her longing to be outside, and falling in love.The reader truly
gains an emotional connection with the main characters and understands
more what it means to have serious struggles in life, other than
ones we face daily.
Skid, a collection of poetry by Dean Young, is a magnificent read that
will make you smile, frown, and even cry a little. Young’s ability to connect
and engage the reader comes second to none as Skid touches all
aspects of life through poetry. No two poems in this collection are alike
as with every turn of the page you are exposed to an endless amount
of tales, experiences and wonder. Dean Young’s humor, sensitivity,
and seriousness are all captured throughout the collection making
for a delightful read to anyone who has a soft spot for reading poetry.
Another very suspenseful, young adult read by Markus Zusak, the author
of The Book Thief. This novel grabs you by the shirt and brings you
in. It is very hard to put down. I Am The Messenger is about an average
19 year old boy named Ed Kennedy that is brought into a world of trouble
when he gets an ace card in the mail with three addresses on it.
Throughout the book, he goes on a journey fixing the wrongs of the
world all while trying to figure out why he is doing it. Eds journey as the
messenger reveals a lot about himself, others, and helps him figure out
what he wants to accomplish during his life. I recommend this book to
anyone with a couple of hours on their hands because this book is very
hard to put down.
The Book Thief  is a tale about a young girl and her foster family living
through World War II in a fictional German town. Our main character, 
Liesel Meminger, creates an everlasting bond with her foster father,
Hans, as well as her best friend, Rudy. Unlike many living in Nazi Germany,
Hans refuses to join the Nazi party, thus bringing about many
conflicts that they must overcome. For example, Hans is unable to find
work in the community due to members boycotting him not joining the
party. The book continues to develop when Hans offers Max Vandenburg,
a Jew in hiding, refuge in their home. Leisel eventually befriends
Max, and continues to question the political environment around her.
Hans and Max help nurture Liesel’s interest in reading and books, which
only continues to develop as the story unfolds. There are many twists
and turns throughout the book that leave the reader with many questions
about both themselves and the society they live in.
The Book Thief is a book notoriously known for how sad and dark it is.
Told from the perspective of Death, the book follows a ten-year-old girl
name Liesel Meminger as she is placed in a foster home and raised in
Nazi Germany during WW2. This book provides insight into how dark
the lives were for the people suffering during WW2, and how selective
it was to have a good and safe life during this time. Although I was required
to read this book for class the first time that I read it, I have read
it several times since because it is so fascinating and interesting. If you
are looking to completely get lost in a book, this one is very hard to put
down.
